AMAZON DEVELOPMENT CENTRE 
 
SCREENING ROUND: 
 
All the students who met the eligibility criteria took this test (Online). It was a coding + aptitude + 
behavioural round conducted on AMCAT platform.    
 
Part 1: Debugging: 
 
It had around 7 questions with buggy code snippets. Candidates were expected to clear the bug and 
produce the required output.  
Difficulty Level: EASY 
 
Part 2: Coding: 
 
It had 2 Coding question, the questions may seem complex at first glance, but mostly are direct 
application of well-known data structures and algorithms. Candidates will be provided an hour to 
solve. Remember to handle edge cases as well since u will not be aware of failed test cases as they 
are hidden.  
Difficulty Level: Moderate 
 
Part 3: Behavioural Analysis: 
 
This was more of a personal round. There wasn’t a single right answer to any question. It had 
questions like candidate’s interest, his/her strength/weakness. Do attend this part very carefully since 
this is the only round where you can outperform others, also try to remain consistent throughout all 
the questions and don’t contradict yourself across two different questions.  
Difficulty Level: There isn’t such for this part, may be Moderate for you to pay extra attention.     
 
Part 4: Aptitude: 
 
It was a typical aptitude round. I found it difficult to keep up with the time since it had some questions 
testing comprehension skills. 
Difficulty Level: Moderate 
 
 
 
 
INTERVIEW ROUND(S): 
 
There were 4 rounds of interview, out of which first 3 were Technical and last one was technical cum 
managerial. 
 
First Technical Interview: 
 
I was asked to solve two coding problems in one hour. The proposed solution should be optimized to 
the fullest (minimal time and space complexity). The interviewer will have a conversation to help to 
arrive at the solution. 
The two coding problems were based on the following: 
1. Similar to searching in a row and column wise sorted 2-D Matrix 
2. Similar to finding if one string is a substring of another 
 
Second Technical Interview: 
 
Similar to first round, I was given another two problems and was asked to give an optimal solution 
in one hour. 
The two coding problems were based on the following: 
1. Sorting a stream of integers.( I used  an heap) 
2. Finding longest substring in a dictionary of words.( I used a trie ) 
 
Third Technical Interview: 
 
It was similar to first 2 rounds. 
The 2 coding problems were based on the following: 
1. Process scheduling with custom constraints 
2. Application of Binary Search Tree Searching, Insertion and Deletion 
 
Final Round (Managerial + Technical Round): 
 
Questions from various domains like DBMS, Operating Systems, and Object Oriented Programming 
were asked. Finally a coding question based on Bit-magic was given. 
 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
In decreasing order of importance 
1. Data Structures 
2. Algorithms 
3. Basic knowledge on domains listed in the final round experience.  
 
Use Geeksforgeeks articles for preparation and Leetcode for practice. 
Tip: Watch “Back to Back SWE” videos in youtube  
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Abishiek S 
abishiek2103@gmail.com 
