TCS NINJA 
 
Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services, consulting and business solutions 
organization that delivers real results to global businesses, ensuring a level of 
certainty no other firm can match. TCS offers a consulting-led, integrated portfolio 
of IT and IT-enabled infrastructure, engineering and assurance services.  
 
After the Online National Qualifier Test, students who performed well in the 
NQT were selected for the TCS Digital profile and Ninja profile. 
 
Round 1: Numerical, Verbal and Reasoning ability questions and Two coding 
Questions (NQT)  
The time limit given for solving the coding question was 1 hour. I was shortlisted 
for TCS Ninja Interview process as I couldn’t solve the coding questions for some 
test cases.  
 
Round 2: Video Interview conducted via MS teams 
Technical Round: 
1. Tell me about yourself? 
2. Difference between DELETE, DROP and TRUNCATE. 
3. ACID properties. 
4. About Disaster recovery in Database and why is it used? 
5. Overloading and Overriding in C++. 
6. Inheritance and its different types in C++. 
7. Commit and Rollback in database. 
8. Difference between Waterfall model and Iterative model. 
9. What is an Agile model? 
10. Different Operating systems you know and can work. 
11. What happens when system boots? 
12. Difference between RAM and ROM. 
13. Questions on GB, MB and TB.  
E.g.- How many MB is 1GB? etc., 
Questions were asked mostly from the subjects that was mentioned in the resume. 
Then the interviewer asked about my project and working of it and the languages 
used for implementation. 
E.g.- Different functionalities of your project etc., 
Another interviewer from the same panel asked me a situational question. 
14. How would you explain a 6-year-old child about the working (different 
functionalities) of your project (final end product)?  
HR round: 
The HR round was very casual and questions were like  
15. Why TCS? 
16. About the relocation(yes/no)? 
The interview took place for about 45 minutes. Most of the questions were easy and 
overall, it was a good experience. 
Topics to be focused: 
• C, C++, Java, Python 
• Database management system  
• Operating System  
 
Mainly focus on the topics and the projects mentioned in your resume. Have 
a good knowledge on the basics. Learn in depth topics for which you have mentioned 
as your subjects of interest and most of the questions were based on those. 
Hope this helps.  
Thank you and All the best. 
 
 Agalya Punniyakotti 
agalya1160@gmail.com 
