WELLS FARGO INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
(INTERNSHIP) 
 
 
 
 
About the Company: 
 
Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational financial services 
company with a significant global presence. The company operates in 35 
countries and serves over 70 million customers worldwide. It is a 
systemically important financial institution according to the Financial 
Stability Board. It is considered one of the "Big Four Banks" in the United 
States, alongside JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, and Citigroup. 
 
Online Test 
 
The test was conducted on the SHL platform and consisted of four 
sections:  
Verbal Aptitude, Business Aptitude, and two rounds of coding. 
 
1. Verbal Aptitude: 
 
o Format: 12 MCQs to be solved in 15 minutes. 
o Content: Questions focused on grammar corrections, 
vocabulary, and 4-5 reading comprehension-based questions. 
o Navigation: Free navigation was prohibited. 
 
2. Business Aptitude: 
 
o Format: 14 MCQs to be solved in 25 minutes. 
o Content: Data interpretation questions involving the different 
types of graphs (pie, line, bar), and candlestick charts (about 2 
questions).  
o Each question typically included two graphs and the questions 
were lengthy, requiring careful data analysis. 
o Navigation: Free navigation was prohibited. 
 
 
3. Coding Round 1 (Duration-40 minutes): 
 
o Format: 2 coding questions, with driver code provided. Each 
question came with 1 example of input/output  
o Navigation: Allowed between questions. 
o Content: The questions were word problem-based, requiring a 
clear understanding of the problem before solving. They were 
of easy to medium difficulty. 
o Note: Each participant received a different set of questions. 
 
4. Coding Round 2 (Duration- 10 minutes): 
1 question 
 
The question was similar to finding the number of Sundays 
between two given years. 
 
22 students were shortlisted for the interviews, which took place at MIT. 
 
Interview Process: 
 
The interview process consisted of three rounds: 
Here are some of the questions I can recollect for each round: - 
 
1. Technical Round 1 (45-50 minutes): 
 
Topics questioned: Basics of OS, DBMS, a little bit of OOPS, 
DSA 
o Start- Discussion about my goals and aspirations. 
o Questions: 
▪ Operating Systems (OS): Process scheduling, what is a 
process, kernel, and real-world examples of process 
scheduling. 
▪ Internship: Questions about my past internship and the 
software used. 
▪ Projects: Questions about my project work. (It’s important 
to know your projects thoroughly.) 
▪ Algorithms: Binary search, merge sort, quick sort, and 
their efficiencies. 
▪ OOP Concepts, what is a subclass? 
 
 
▪ Databases: Questions on joins, column-based databases, 
and foreign keys. 
▪ Types of OS and how programs run. 
▪ Questions about my role in clubs (ACM, AUSEC)  
▪ What’s my process for debugging large codes? 
 
2. Round 2 (20 minutes): 
 
o Questions: 
▪ How I learned about Wells Fargo. 
▪ Goals and what I aim to achieve at Wells Fargo before my 
internship and at the internship. 
▪ Internship-related questions, and about my thoughts on 
learning new technologies and where to start. 
▪ Hobbies and what I do in my free time. 
 
3. HR Round (10-15 minutes): 
 
o Questions: 
▪ What I like about Chennai. 
▪ How I learned about the company. 
▪ How do I work together in a team/project (process flow)? 
 
My Question: I asked what’s the best way to develop knowledge 
and skills in finance. She explained the various forums available 
and emphasized that gaining experience in the finance sector is 
the best way to develop it. 
 
Result: 12 students were selected for the Internship. 
 
GOOD LUCK!!! 
 
Anagha Srikrishna 
CEG CSE 2026 
 
Email: anaghasrikrishna@gmail.com 
Mobile: +91 8825789933 
LinkedIn: 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/anagha-srikrishna-b6a4ba215/ 
