 
SAP Labs Interview Experience 
-Ansh Bomb (CSE 2021-2025) 
About the company: 
SAP (short for Systems, Applications, and Products in Data Processing) is one of the biggest 
names in enterprise software, helping businesses around the world run smarter, whether it’s 
managing their supply chains, handling finances, or making sense of their data. Headquartered 
in Germany, SAP has been around for over 50 years and works with companies across almost 
every industry you can think of (they are pretty much omnipresent - being a b2b company 
integrated with almost every major company today). For students and early-career 
professionals, it’s a great place to explore both tech and impact at a global level. 
 
Selection Process: 
Online Assessment 
466 students were shortlisted (based on eligibility criteria) for the online assessment. It spanned 
45 minutes and included 2 DSA questions. Platform - SHL. The questions were of easy-medium 
level, and I am not sure what the shortlisting criteria for the next round were; cause I wasn’t 
very fast (spent more time than I should have on the second question). 
First Question (Easy): Different products were being stored at specific temperatures (vector of 
products). Each product had a required storage temperature, and we had to figure out how many 
of them needed to be stored below zero and reflect those. 
Second Question (Medium): Don’t fully recollect it but the problem focused on tracking 
category-specific elements within a dynamically shifting window of pizzas and their types xD. 
At each step, the goal was to identify the earliest occurrence of a given type of pizza (meat or 
vegan) within a bounded, sliding display window (like the ones we see in Dominoes, etc) and 
list out such occurrences (including at times it wasn’t observed to be there). 
Result: Post this OA, ~35 students were shortlisted for the in-person interviews. 
 
Round 1 – Technical 
The interviewer almost immediately jumped into my resume and asked me technical questions 
about my previous internship and projects. It is crucial to know your project at a conceptual 
level as the interviewer tested fundamental concepts and components involved in the listed 
projects and internships. Post this, a few questions on DSA (linked lists, basic trees, etc) were 
asked. I did not have to code out anything, only explain my approaches.  
Sample question - Would you use a stack or a queue for DFS? And which one for BFS? 
We kept jumping into different DSA questions. In fact, during the interview, my project (listed 
on the resume) was also tied into a DSA question. I do not recollect whether there were any 
OOPS or DBMS questions in this round, but I think there was one OS question asked. This 
round lasted for nearly an hour. 
 
Round 2 – Technical 
There were two interviewers. This one included a lot more DSA. I was asked to write out the 
code for one question, and although my initial approach was passable, they walked me through 
it to identify edge case optimizations. My solution’s time complexity was horrendous, but let’s 
not get into that. I was also tested on a few basic and medium-level OOPS and DBMS concepts. 
Additionally, there was a scenario-based question, where I had to ideate a solution to a business 
case, following which my high-level approach was broken down into smaller tasks. I was asked 
about the technical implementation of these smaller tasks. File handling, etc was covered, and 
I forgot the exact syntax for BufferedReader but luckily the interviewers did not penalize me 
for that, and said they were interested in the logic and approach. A few fun riddles were also 
asked (human-computer 21 matches, etc), and before I knew it almost 1.5 hours had gone by. 
Result: ~10-12 people were shortlisted for the next round. 
  
Round 3 – Techno-Managerial 
This was perhaps the most perplexing round. We started with a discussion about my interests, 
and I mentioned current affairs, Both the interviewers then started asking me about politics, 
GK, etc. We then moved on to my resume. Almost every single line of my resume was analyzed 
and questions were asked. My strong recommendation is to be honest on your resume and know 
everything you have listed there. Do not list out technical skills just for the sake of it, they will 
probably ask you questions from it. I was even asked a few in-depth technical questions about 
topics in my research papers. This round also involved asking me about my thoughts on Climate 
Change, etc (all tied to SAP’s current branding and initiatives).  
Result: ~6 people were shortlisted for the HR round. 
 
Round 4 – HR 
Standard, as far as HR rounds ago. Was asked about what SAP works on (being a B2B 
company, people outside the industry rarely know about it), SAP initiatives, about myself, etc.  
Result: 4 people were offered a position at SAP Labs, Bangalore. 
 
Some general pointers –  
1. For DSA, I practiced using ACM-CEG’s resources, Strivers A2Z Sheet and looking up 
company-specific most frequently asked questions – available on sites like gfg. 
2. Go through crash courses the day before the interview for OOPS, DBMS, OS, etc. 
3. It’s ok to say you are unsure about an answer, they don’t expect you to know everything. 
All the best and good luck 
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
You can reach out to me on my LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ansh-bomb/ or contact 
me on my email id anshbomb16@gmail.com in case you want to connect  . 
