Citicorp (Intern) 
Batch: 2019 – 2023 
About the company: Citicorp is the holding company for Citibank as well as 
several international banks. Citicorp contains two core businesses, Global 
Consumer Banking and Institutional Clients Group.  
 
There were 3 rounds for the selection – Online Test, Technical Interview and 
HR interview. 
1. Online Test: 
 There were 5 sections in the online test with around 2 hours 30 
minutes. (each section had separate time duration) 
 Technical MCQ (25 question – 35 minutes) – questions were 
mostly from C\C++, OOPS and some debugging type questions. 
  2 Section of Aptitude and Logical MCQ (30 questions – around 
35 minutes) – included some basic math and physics. 
  English MCQ (15 question – around 20 minutes) - tested basic 
grammar knowledge and had reading comprehension. 
 Coding Round ( 60 minutes ) –  
i. Check if binary code of given two numbers are in 
successive position in gray code. 
ii. Another question was based on Binary trees, a medium level 
question. 
Takeaways from online test: 
 MCQ questions is all about time management, spend average of 1 minute 
per question. 
 In coding round try to pass as many test case as possible(even if it is not 
faster/optimized) – (I was not able to pass 3 test case in each question) 
 MCQ sections is given equal importance as given to coding question for 
selection to next round. 
 Attend all questions (No negative marks). 
Around 85 students were selected for Technical Interview. 
 
 
2. Technical interview: 
 First the interviewer asked to introduce about myself. 
 Following that he asked me to explain about my project which I 
included in my resume. I had put the link of one of the projects which 
was hosted in heroku, he did visit the link and asked few questions 
seeing that.   
 Then he asked some basic questions from C,C++ and OOPS. Some 
questions are: 
o What is virtual class? 
o What is dangling pointers? 
o Static memory allocation. 
o Operator Overloading 
o Call by value and Call by reference 
57 students were selected to the HR interview. 
 
3. HR interview: 
 The only question asked for all way, why do you need to join this 
company. 
 Interview ended up asking whether I have any questions to ask. 
27 students were selected for internship. 
 
Key Takeaways from interview: 
 Being 100% true to your resume will get you in halfway. 
 Even if you don’t answer a question or two during interview, continue to 
answer confidently, we never know what will inspire them to select us. 
 Be clear in saying what you know, the interviewer askes question from 
your resume and just what you say. (So you can decide what question you 
have to be asked next through your answer) 
 Do a prior research about the company so that you can manage HR 
interview. 
 Ask only positive questions, when you are asked to question. 
 
All the best for you preparation! 
Feel free to contact - https://www.linkedin.com/in/araventh-mohan-a4a967179/  
 
