               BNY MELLON TECHNOLOGY (Internship) 
 
About the Company 
       The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, commonly known as BNY 
Mellon, is an American multinational Investment banking services holding 
company headquartered in New York City. It is by far the world's largest custodian 
bank and asset servicing company  BNY Mellon is an investments company, 
which provides investment management, investment services and wealth 
management helping institutions and individuals succeed in markets all over the 
world. 
 
Online Round (Coding) 
       Alike all the companies, Coding round was the BNY Mellon's first level of 
selection process. There were 4 coding questions distributed across various 
domains and rated under different difficulty levels. The paltform used was 
hackerank. Out of these 4 questions, one was categorised as easy, two were 
medium and one was hard. The easy question was plain sailing and was based on 
arrays. But the challenging part of this question is to handle the given constraints 
where without handling it may cause 1 or 2 testcases to fail. 
Both the medium questions were based on strings. These were little bit tricky but 
could be solved with thorough knowledge over the fundamentals in strings and 
suffice amount of time. The hard question was a back-tracking problem. 
Candidates who solved atleast 2 questions were shortlisted for the next round. 
Around 20 pupil cleared this round. 
 
Techincal Interviews 
      There were 2 technical interviews in total. In the first round, initially I was 
asked to introduce myself briefly and then was tested on my basic understanding 
of datastructures. Along with this, I was asked to write small code snippets which 
was mostly on arrays and recursion. Also, I was given a situation based question 
and was questioned on how could I cope-up with the given situation. Based on the 
performance, almost half of the candidates were shortlisted for the next round of 
interview. I was one among them. 
 
In the second technical round, the questions were fully focussed on my 
resume. I detailly explained all the projects which I worked on when I was asked 
to do. Also, I was asked to write some of the code snippets for the projects I 
explained. Some questions were on computer networks, DBMS and data 
structures. Given a problem, I was asked to solve it. It was mostly on strings and 
arrays. Approximately 10 candidates including me who attended the round 2 was 
selected for the next round. 
    In the round 3, questions on pointers, DBMS and operating systems were the 
centre of attention. Resume specific questions were also asked. We also taked 
about the extra courses and projects which I was undertaking. The final list of the 
selected candidates were shared after the end of the last round. 
 
Internship Experience: 
      Due to the current pandemic situation, the internship was held virtually for 3 
months from May 2020 to July 2020. Initially we had a week of traning where we 
were introduced to company's tradition and technologies used. Then, we were put 
in different teams working under various domains and were assigned a mentor. I 
worked on various enterprise applications which were coded in JAVA and also on 
the security vulnerabilities. In a nutshell, my internship has been an excellent and 
rewarding experience. Not only I did gain practical knowledge but also got an 
opportunity to meet many new technically expertise people. Also, there was 
enough flexibility and time for me to learn and to try out my own ideas. 
 
Topics to be focussed: Data structures, Algorithms, Networks, DBMS 
  
                                          All The Best!!! 
 
 
                                                              Ashvathe(ashvathe1111@gmail.com) 
 
   
      
     
 
 
 
