 SAP Labs Interview Experience                       
Role : Developer Associate                                                                       
Total Rounds: 5  
Date: 18th August 2025 
 
 
It all began on a nervous evening in front of my laptop, preparing for the 
SAP Labs interviews.  
I had read countless experiences from other candidates, and now it was 
finally my turn to create one of my own.  
From the very first online test to the final HR discussion, here’s a step-
by-step look at how my SAP Labs interview unfolded and the lessons I 
took away. 
 
 
About Company: 
About SAP Labs India 
SAP Labs India is a major research and development hub of SAP, 
located in Bengaluru, Gurgaon, Pune, Mumbai, and Hyderabad. The 
Bengaluru campus is the largest, focusing on AI solutions and 
enterprise technology with a strong, customer-centric approach. 
About SAP 
SAP (Systems, Applications, and Products in Data Processing) is a 
global leader in enterprise software, helping businesses manage 
operations like finance, supply chain, and data analytics. Headquartered 
in Germany, SAP has been driving innovation for over 50 years and 
works with companies in nearly every industry worldwide. 
 
[Learn the basic concepts of SAP ERP products and the SAP HANA 
database they use. They usually don’t ask direct questions from these 
topics, but having this knowledge can give you a slight edge over other 
candidates by showing genuine interest in the company.]  
 
 
Selection Process 
1.Online Assessment (OA) 
 Duration: 100 minutes (1 hour 40 minutes) 
 Platform: Codility 
 Proctoring: Both video and audio 
 Questions: 2 DSA problems – one easy and one medium level. 
 Note: Each candidate received a different set of questions. 
 
Questions Asked to me  
Question -1 
Problem Statement 
You are given an array A containing N integers, sorted in non-
decreasing order. 
Your goal is to transform this array by performing a series of moves. A 
"move" can be one of two operations: 
1. Remove an integer from the array. 
2. Insert an integer anywhere in the array. 
The objective is to reach a state where for every unique value X present 
in the final array, it appears exactly X times. 
You need to find the minimum total number of moves (removals + 
insertions) required to achieve this goal. Note that it's permissible to 
remove all occurrences of a number. 
 
 
Example 1 
 Input: A = [1, 1, 3, 4, 4, 4] 
  Expected Output: 3 
Explanation: The initial array has two 1s, one 3, and three 4s. You can 
perform the following 3 moves: 
1. Remove one 1. 
2. Remove the 3. 
3. Insert one 4. The resulting array is [1, 4, 4, 4, 4]. In this array, the 
value 1 appears once, and the value 4 appears four times, 
satisfying the condition. 
 
Example 2 
 Input: A = [1, 2, 2, 2 ,5, 5, 5, 8] 
 Expected Output: 4 
Explanation:  
1.Remove 8 
     2.Remove 2 once 
3.Add two times 5  
Total moves : 4 
 
Example 3 
 Input: A = []  
 Expected Output: 0 
 
 
 
 
Question 2 
Problem Statement 
In a city, there are N districts (numbered from 0 to N-1) connected by M 
streets. The street network is described by two arrays, A and B, where 
each pair (A[K], B[K]) represents a street between two districts. 
There are also L hospitals in the city, and their locations are given by an 
array H. 
When an ambulance is needed in a district, it is sent from the hospital 
that can reach the district via the shortest possible route. It takes 
exactly 1 minute to travel along any single street. 
The task is to find the longest time required for an ambulance to reach 
any district in the city. This means you must: 
1. For every district, find the shortest possible travel time from its 
closest hospital. 
2. From all these shortest times, find the maximum value. 
If any district cannot be reached by an ambulance (i.e., it's not 
connected to any district with a hospital), the function should return -1.
 
I don’t remember the example for this question 
Similalar question : https://www.chegg.com/homework-help/questions-
and-answers/city-n-districts-numbered-0-n-1-connected-m-streets-
connections-described-two-arrays-b-len-q92788342 
 
I solved both questions  
Result of this Round : 
A total of 89 students were shortlisted for the interview. 
The results came out just one day before, in the afternoon, so I had only 
that evening and the next morning to prepare. 
 
My advice: if you’ve solved both problems, don’t wait for the results—
start preparing for the interview right away. 
If you get shortlisted, you’re ready. If not, that preparation will still help 
for the next company. 
 
This way, even if the shortlist is announced at the last minute, you’ll 
already feel confident and ready. 
 
 
Technical Interview – 1  
 
Duration: For me, this round lasted about 1 to 1 hour 15 minutes. 
1. Introduction & Project Discussion 
The interview started with the classic question: “Introduce yourself.” 
Next, the interviewer asked me to explain my second project listed on 
my resume. 
I began explaining my project, and he seemed very satisfied with my 
explanation. 
Later, he moved on to the technical part and asked, “Are you good in 
Java?” 
I confidently replied, “Yes, I’m good at it.” 
 
Questions asked related to java  
 
1.Exception Handling 
2.Whether try block cant exist with/without catch and finally 
3.checked exception and unchecked exception with examples for them 
4.Throw vs throws  
5.finally keyword 
6.Oops concept in java  
My Advice: 
Don’t just memorize OOP theory from sites like GFG. Instead, focus on 
understanding the concepts clearly and, if possible, relate them to your 
project. Explaining OOP concepts with examples from your own project 
makes it easier for the interviewer to understand and shows practical 
knowledge. 
 
 7.Polymorphism one example code question 
class Calculator { 
    int sum(int a, int b) { 
        return a + b; 
    } 
    long sum(long a, int b) {  
        return a + b; 
    } 
} 
Calculator.sum(10,5) 
Which method will be called  
I said sum(int a ,int b) 
Why long sum() isn’t called he asked  
Then what happens if only we have long sum() 
I said if we have only long sum() then long sum will be called  
He asked me to explain the reason 
Java looks for exact type matches first. 
If no exact match, it considers widening conversions (int → long, float 
→ double, etc.). 
8.Wrapper class 
 
we moved on to the DSA part. I was given four standard problems: 
1. Binary Search 
2. Set Matrix Zeros 
3. Find all permutations of an integer array 
4. Merge Sort 
I was asked to write code for all four problems and also explain each 
solution with a dry run. 
I managed to solve all the problems, but I struggled a bit with the dry 
run of the recursion in the permutation problem, even though it’s a 
standard question from Striver. 
The good part was that the interviewer helped me a lot throughout the 
session, guiding me when needed, which made the experience much 
smoother. 
Then he asked me whether you have any questions 
At the end of the interview, the classic question comes up: “Do you have 
any questions for me?” 
Instead of leaving it blank, use this moment to demonstrate curiosity 
and genuine interest.  
Ask about the team, the role, growth opportunities, or the projects you 
might work on. Thoughtful questions at this stage leave a strong, 
positive impression on the interviewer. 
 
My Advice: 
Avoid asking the usual, generic questions that everyone asks. Instead, 
try to ask a unique and thoughtful question—one that stands out and 
makes the interviewer remember you. 
I asked about the Agentic AI and Joule AI that SAP is currently using in 
development.  
 
 
 
NOTE: 
My interviewer didn’t introduce himself at the start, so at the end I 
asked, “Sir, could you please tell me about yourself and your role?” 
Always remember who interviewed you and what their role is—this 
information can be very helpful for future rounds. 
[My First Round little bit lengthier when compared to others] 
 
After this round, I got shortlisted for the next stage. From all the 
participants, only about 25 students moved forward to 
  
Technical Round 2 
Duration:45min to One hour 
This round also started with the usual “Introduce yourself”. 
 During my introduction, the interviewer paused and asked about 
my 12th-grade marks. He was impressed and then asked about 
my favorite subjects in school and why they were my favorites. 
 He also asked about the difference in study methods between 
school and college. 
Next, he asked me to explain one of my projects. I gave a detailed 
explanation, covering all aspects, and answered the follow-up 
questions about it. 
Project  Tips: 
Below all the questions where not asked for me in this interview  
Few of them were asked but through my multiple rejections from other 
company I listed them 
You should be ready to answer these common questions about your 
project [Not for this company/ Its comman for all company]: 
1. Why did you choose this project? 
2. What’s the novelty of your project compared to existing solutions? 
3. What was your role in the project? 
4. Did you face any difficulties or challenges during the project? 
5. How did you overcome those difficulties? 
6. How does your project handle multiple users simultaneously? 
7. What security features does your project include? 
My Advice: 
As a fresher, your project can add significant weight to your profile. 
 Avoid doing common or basic projects. 
 Try to work on a unique project that makes you stand out from the 
crowd. 
 
Then, the discussion moved to DBMS concepts, where he asked about 
joins, including inner join and outer join. 
He also asked about the SAP HANA database, which led to a discussion. 
(This question doesn’t usually appear; I had mentioned HANA when 
talking about SAP earlier, which showed him that I have a good 
understanding of the tools they use.) 
Finally, he gave me a DSA problem: Sudoku Solver. 
 I was asked to explain my approach, which I did clearly. 
 The solution and approach I presented impressed him. 
 
He also asked about Scrum, since I had mentioned it on my resume.  
I explained my understanding of Scrum 
Apart from technical topics, we discussed various other things, making 
the conversation more engaging. This round really gave me a lot of 
confidence. 
 
• At the end, they asked me: “Do you have any questions ?” 
I have asked two to three one of this was 
“What advice would you give to a new joinee at SAP?” 
He answered this question with a quote and we had a conversion a little 
longer  
My Advice: 
Whenever you get the chance, try to connect with the interviewer. 
Building a good rapport can leave a positive impression and help you 
stand out. 
 
When I came out of the room  
Immediately I have called for my third round 
 
Round 3 – Techno-managerial Round: 
Duration : 50min – one hour 
 
This round also started with the usual “Introduce yourself”. 
 
He asked questions 
1.Challenges you have faced in your personal life 
2.What are your weakness 
3.he asked me to implement the oops concept in my Machine learning 
project 
I have wriiten the code structure for that and explained him  
4.He asked about SDLC 
5.Explain about waterfall model 
6.Two puzzles  
I was given a classic coin puzzle: 
 10 boxes, each with 10g coins except one box with a coin of 
different weight. 
 We were allowed to use the weight machine only once to find the 
odd coin. 
I couldn’t solve it initially. I tried a different approach and gave an 
answer using the weight machine three times. The interviewer then 
gave me some hints on how to solve it with a single weighing, but I still 
couldn’t get it. 
 
But the way I approached made him to give another problem for me to 
try 
 
Puzzle 2 : https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/aptitude/puzzle-7-3-bulbs-
and-3-switches/ 
 
I have solved this and explained the approach in good manner 
He was satisfied with my answer 
 
Apart from the technical questions, we discussed many other topics. 
However, I felt I didn’t perform up to my own standard in this round 
compared to the second round. 
 
This round also finished with “Do you have any questions “ 
After that I have waited for the result of this round 
Then they called me for final round 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Round 4 –HR Round: 
 Duration: 20 mins  
 
This was the final round of my interview process. As usual, it started 
with a brief introduction. 
The HR round was more of a friendly conversation. Some of the 
questions he asked included: 
 About my schooling and academic background 
 Whether I am satisfied with MIT and how I felt when I didn’t get 
into CEG 
 Questions about my family 
 Whether I’m comfortable relocating to Bengaluru 
 About my CTC, base salary, and benefits 
 Whether I consider myself introvert or extrovert 
I also asked questions about the company and about him personally. 
Overall, the conversation was very friendly and comfortable, making the 
round quite enjoyable. 
 
Finally I have completed all the rounds and waited for results for 
hours.. 
 
Finally, after completing all the rounds (around 8 PM), the results were 
announced, and I was overjoyed to learn that I had been selected. It was 
an unforgettable moment of pride and happiness. 
That day was more than just an interview—it was a learning experience. 
I gained insights not only into technical and problem-solving skills but 
also the value of confidence, effective communication, and quick 
thinking under pressure. 
 
 
Tips for Interviews: 
Be Strong what you have mentioned in the resume  
Don’t mention if you don’t know 
Your resume will be fully questioned by interviewers during each stage  
Dot get trapped 
Be confident : Even if you don’t know try it.  
Try to connect with the interviewer whenever possible 
 
During the interview, there were a few questions I couldn’t solve, 
despite trying my best.  
I realized that it’s important to admit when you don’t know something, 
but do it the right way [Don’t blindly tell I don’t know].  
Don’t try to cheat or guess blindly. 
 Instead, explain your thought process, show how you would approach 
the problem, and be honest.  
Interviewers appreciate honesty and clear reasoning more than random 
answers. 
Wishing you all the very best! 
When you read this, you must be shortlisted for the interview. 
Give your best in the interview! 
Let’s meet at SAP Labs. 
 
Don’t forget to connect with me on LinkedIn. 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/bala17/ 
 
 
 
  
 
