CITICORP SERVICES INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED 
 
CitiCorp Services India Private Limited deals with financial services. It provides 
investment and commercial banking services like consumer loans, trade advance etc. 
 
Round 1: Online Assessment  
 
This round consisted of MCQs and 2 coding questions. The MCQs included 
aptitude, logical, mathematical and verbal questions each in different sections. The 
verbal questions included comprehension questions. The comprehension questions 
will be based on a maximum of 2 passages. So we need not rush up as 4-5 questions 
may be based on a single passage. Aptitude questions were mostly based on the 
questions available in the Indiabix website. Each section has separate timers. 
Managing time will be a wise choice. The coding questions are in easy and medium 
level mostly. Practice in Leetcode website for coding. 
 
Round 2: Technical , Managerial and HR Interview 
 
The technical round is for about 25-30 minutes. If one has completed an internship, 
questions will be mostly based on the internship. The questions were as follows. 
1. Tell me about yourself 
2. Tell me about your internship 
3. Questions on the technologies I explored during my internship 
4. Data structure for frequency handling in a sorted way 
5. You are working in a team and one of your higher official is doing something 
wrong. What would you do? 
6. What do you consider important, Listening or Speaking? 
7. How was your hostel life? 
8. What would you consider as your achievement in your college? 
9. Tell me about your college life which has a lot of diverse people in campus. 
10. What would you do if we reject you in this process? 
Be bold in answering these questions and have a clear layout of answers before 
answering questions like these. These questions can shape one’s personality analysis. 
Round 3: HR Interview 
 
This round is for about 5-10 minutes. The following questions were asked. 
1. Tell me about yourself ? 
2. Why did you pick up computer science? 
3. How does technology inspire you? 
4. Do you have any questions for me? 
For the last question, do some background research on the company if you are about 
to ask questions on the company’s culture and stuff. Other questions can be about the 
learning process or you can pick up topics from the company’s presentation. 
 
Topics to be focused: 
 Data Structures and Algorithms 
 Prepare answers for common HR questions and ‘about yourself’ question prior. 
 
Take Away: 
Be clear with the concepts you speak. A bold and self-confident conversation will 
help. Think through the answers you provide. Start with a less optimized solution and 
build up as you go. Maintain a positive approach for most answers. Fear not if you 
don’t know the answers. Try answering the questions positively. 
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Deepthika S 
deepthisiva99@gmail.com 
