BNY Mellon Technology Private Limited 
 
Batch: 2023 FTE 
About Company 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, commonly known as BNY Mellon, is an American 
multinational Investment banking services holding company headquartered in New York City. It 
is by far the world's largest custodian bank and asset servicing company BNY Mellon is an 
investment company, which provides investment management, investment services and wealth 
management helping institutions and individuals succeed in markets all over the world. 
 
Hiring Process 
 
The hiring process consisted of 4 rounds. 
Online Coding Test 
 
Platform 
: Hackerrank 
 
Time 
 
: 90 mins 
 
There were 4 coding questions totally, one easy, two medium, one hard. The easy question 
is to sort the given array elements according to their number of set bits 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sort-array-according-count-set-bits/ . 
Second question is slot machine 2.0 hackerrank problem. Third question is to find whether 2 given 
points lies inside a triangle or not. I solved around 3 questions and got shortlisted to the next round. 
Technical Interview – 1 
 
Place 
: CUIC (Physical Interview) 
 
Time 
: 35 mins 
 
Around 22 people got shortlisted for this round. The interview started off with introduction 
about myself. I was asked to explain one of my project and also to draw the architecture of my 
project. Questions were from basic DSA like sorting algorithms (insertion sort and merge sort), 
reverse a string, count frequency of each character in a string. There were also questions to write 
SQL query. The interviewer mainly wanted to test the basic understanding of above concepts. I 
solved all the questions and got selected for next round. 
Technical Interview – 2 
 
Place 
: CUIC (Physical Interview) 
 
Time 
: 45 mins 
 
This round started off with explaining one of my projects. Then the interviewer asked me 
about the questions from DBMS (Denormalization, stored procedures, functions, aggregate 
functions etc.) and to write SQL queries for 2 tables. There were questions asked from OOPs 
(function overloading, function overriding, super keyword etc). Then the interviewer asked 
questions on networks (what happens when u type a URL in your browser, what is TCP, what is 3-
way handshaking). Then there were questions from OS - multithreading and race condition. The 
interviewer asked questions on different APIs but I was able to tell about REST API alone. At last 
there was an easy DSA problem given.  
HR Round        
 
Place 
: CUIC (Physical Interview) 
 
Time 
: 40 mins 
 
The interviewer asked me about my previous interview rounds. Then he asked about my 
project. He asked about my ability to work as a team and about any difficulty I’ve faced while 
working in a team. Then he asked questions like 
Where do you see yourself in five years? 
 
What is your long-term goal? 
and some other behavioural questions. 
12 people were given the FTE offer. 
TIPS: 
● Practice regularly on any of the coding platforms. I used to practice on Leetcode and gfg. 
● Complete Must do coding questions from GFG. 
● Concentrate on OS, DBMS and OOPs. 
● Have 2-3 solid projects. Go through your projects, including the issues and what could be 
made better. 
● Try to attend contests on Leetcode, Codeforces and Codechef. 
● Be ready to answer any type of questions from your resume. 
 
All the best!!! 
 
This is Dhinakaran V S from CEG CSE of batch 2023. 
If you have any queries, you can reach me at dhinakaran.vs@gmail.com 
 
