 
VERIZON DATA SERVICES INDIA Pvt Ltd 
 
 
Verizon is the #1 wireless provider in the U.S. and a global leader in next 
generation communications technology, including 5G and the Internet of Things. 
Verizon’s IT teams in India play a critical role in both the development of new 
technologies and the day-to-day operation of business. They build systems and work 
on initiatives to help deliver unmatched digital experiences to consumers and 
businesses. In short, they are obsessed with everything the digital world has to offer. 
 
 
Round 1: Platform - AMCAT 
 
Round 1 was conducted on AMCAT platform which had 4 sections, the test was of 
2 hours, and a time limit imposed on every section. 
 Section 1: Quantitative aptitude: 14 questions 
 Section 2: Logical Reasoning: 12 questions 
 Section 3: Technical MCQ: 25 questions 
 Section 4: Coding section: 2 questions. 
 
The first three sections are relatively easy and can be done well with good practice 
and speed. 
 
Coding Questions was easy and medium level, one based on arrays, and the other on 
Backtracking. 
I solved 1 coding question completely and the other passed 11/13 test cases. MCQs 
went off pretty well. I was shortlisted for the next round along with 18 other 
students. 
Tip: Try to solve at least 1 coding question fully and MCQs above average.  
 
Round 2: Technical 
I was asked to introduce myself and go through my resume. The interviewer asked 
me to explain my projects. I had mentioned two projects in my resume one was web 
based and another was ML based  
The questions were  
1. What is your Passion?  
2. Explain the OOPS concepts you have used in your project (they asked more 
OOPS related questions but I don’t remember) 
3. What is normalization? 
4. Why you should normalize? 
5. How did you use normalization in your project? 
6. Difference between 2nd and 3rd normalization  
7. List any 3 SQL queries you used in your project  
8. How did you test your application? 
9. Explain the triggers and procedures in your project 
10. what’s your favorite algorithm in ML 
11. If given a data set, how can one determine which algorithm to be used for that? 
12. What Do You Understand by Backpropagation? 
 
Having a good knowledge about your project, OOPS fundamentals and DBMS 
will be helpful to clear this round.    
 
 
HR: 
 
 It was a really easy round which was a phone call interview. 
 
1. Tell me about yourself. 
2. What do you know about verizon? 
3. Your Strength and weakness  
4. How quickly do you adapt to new technology? 
5. What is the most difficult task you have ever achieved? 
6. Explain to me a situation where you showcase your leadership abilities?  
7. Do you have any questions? 
 
 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
 
 Data structures 
 OOPS 
 Database management systems 
 
 
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Name - Dhivya T C 
Mail id - dhivyatc99@gmail.com 
