             APPIAN INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
Role: Software Engineer 
Appian Corporation is an American cloud computing and enterprise 
software company headquartered in McLean, Virginia, part of the 
Dulles Technology Corridor. The company sells a platform as a service 
(PaaS) for building enterprise software applications. It is focused on 
low-code development, process mining, business process 
management, and case management markets in North America, 
Europe, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia. Appian offers a low-
code platform with a visual interface and pre-built development 
modules. As with other low-code platforms, it enables businesses to 
create apps and automations using little or no code. 
 
There are founds rounds of interview 
1. Coding round 
2. Technical round 
3. Techno - Behavioral round 
4. HR round 
Coding Round: 
                    Candidates were sent a link to attend the online coding 
round, which was held on the Glider platform. We had to solve three 
questions in 75 mins. 
Qn1: 
       Given a sorted array and a value x, find the first and last 
occurrence of value x in the array and return them. If x is not found in 
the array, return {-1, -1}. 
Link : https://leetcode.com/problems/find-first-and-last-position-of-
element-in-sorted-array/description/ 
Since the given array is sorted, we can solve this problem using 
binary search (lowerbound and upperbound) 
Qn2: 
      Given a sorted array which contains non – overlapping intervals 
and a new interval which need to be inserted into the appropriate 
position and return them . The answer should also need to be in 
sorted order, and there should not be any overlapping intervals . 
 Link : https://leetcode.com/problems/insert-interval/description/ 
     Since the array is sorted , we can solve this problem in a one pass. 
Qn3: 
      Given a 1-D array which contains numbers from 1 to n where n is 
size of the array . It must contains a duplicate number and a missing 
number. A 2-D array in the size of M * 2 will be given, where M is the 
number of rows in the 2-D array and this 2-D array remains the same 
for every test case. Find the duplicate and missing number from the 
1-D array and check whether both of them occur as a pair in the 2-D 
array.  
If the pair occurs more than 1 time, return the pair with the string as  
“Multiple teams found” 
Else if the pair occurs only 1 time, then return the pair with the string 
“A Team found” 
Else return {-1 , -1 , “No team found”} 
Link : https://leetcode.com/problems/set-mismatch/description/ 
In this problem, finding out the duplicate and missing number is the 
key, then we can just traverse the 2-D array and figure out their count 
of occurrence and return the answer.  
    I had solved all the problem with optimal solution. Try to code the 
optimal solution which must provides u an edge over others!!! 
     42 of us were selected for next round. 
 
Technical Round: 
       This round begins with the self-introduction. And then I had given 
2 coding questions.This is a pen and paper round so I just conveyed 
the approach and wrote the code segment in the paper. 
Qn1: 
        Given a string s which is actually name of people who are need 
to be separated into 2 groups , find the sum of alphabetical indices of 
first and last character of the string and check whether it is even or 
odd.  
If it’s even , then return “Blue”  
Else return “Red” 
Eg : Input :: s = “Dilshan” 
       Output :: “Blue” 
       Explanation : D and N occurs as 4th and 14th character in 
alphabets . Sum of them would be 18 which is even , so return “Blue” 
as result. 
       Initially , I provided an approach using hashMap to store indices 
of alphabets. Then the interviews asked me , should u actually 
needed hashMap to solve this problem and then I had moved to the 
optimal solution which doesn’t make use of hashMap. 
Qn2:  
       Given a string s, check whether it’s sorted alphabetically or not . 
If it’s sorted , return “Yes” else return “No”. 
       This can be solved easily by just traversing the string. 
        Important thing here is ,They actually don’t reveal the question 
like this , they try to convey this like a scenario. Just think about the 
problem and give the answer.  
        Since I had done projects on  MongoDb and MySql. He actually 
asked me about the differences and what’s the reason behind 
choosing MySql over MongoDb . Also a scenario is given and he 
asked me what kind of Database will u use here and why? 
Techno - Behavioral Round : 
        This round actually revolves around my favourite subjects and 
some questions like  
           Why Appian and why not someother firms like Amazon? 
         Finally , he asked about Quicksort Best and Worst case Time 
complexity. I told him the answer with the justification. 
HR Round: 
        In this round, they actually asked me about my academics and 
checked my DBMS knowledge and few questions related my projects 
also been asked. He asked about Many – to – Many Relationship in 
DBMS and how many tables are actually needed to implement it and 
the reason behind it? 
              In every round , you will be given the chance to ask them 
some questions, so be ready with some questions and make sure that 
question would be impressive. 
              12 of us (8 from CEG and 4 from Mit) got selected for the role 
of Software Engineering Intern. 
Key Takeaways: 
              Try to provide the optimal solution. Start from brute force 
and then convey the optimal solution which would provide u an edge 
over others. 
               Start practising DSA early as possible and keep an eye on 
core subjects like DBMS , OS , OOPS. 
               Be true to yourself. Questions are obviously from your 
resume and know whatever mentioned in your resume. 
               CGPA also plays a vital role, so keep an eye on that too. 
               Keep trying and take your failures as a lesson, learn from it 
and get better!!! 
                Be Confident!!! 
 
Hope this helps 
All the best!!! 
Dilshan Chinnappan A, 
CEG CSE’27 
LinkedIn : www.linkedin.com/in/dilshan-chinnappan 
Email : dilshanchinnappan2006@gmail.com 
Phone : 9345861084 
                
