 
 
 
 
Wells Fargo 
 
 
Round 1:Hosted on AMCAT platform 
 
 
Consisted of 3 sections: English MCQs, business analytical mcqs and 
coding part. The coding part consisted of 2 questions that needed to be solved in 
60mins. Questions ranged from medium to hard level difficulty. One question is 
related to tree logic and another one is based on Dynamic programming. 
 
Round 2: Technical interview 1 
 
 
The panel consisted of one interviewer and lasted for around 1 hour. This 
round started with my introduction and then he started discussing the projects I 
have done in college and also in my internships.  
Questions about the project: 
1. Problem statement 
2. Tech-stack used in the project 
3. Difficulties faced 
 
Questions on coding: 
 
The interviewer asked me to choose an editor of my choice and gave me 
one question to solve, he wanted me to share my screen and walk through the 
solution I am working . He wanted the whole code and the output also. 
 
He mainly focused on the approach, the way I am writing the code and 
how I explain my approach. The question was, Given an array of expenses of a 
person on daily basis( each array element represents that day’s expense) I have 
to find out the number of days the expense is more than the average expense in 
the range of 5 days. 
 
Round 2: Technical interview 2 
  
 
The panel consisted of one interviewer and lasted for 30mins. The 
interviewer started with his introduction and experience. After he was asking 
questions in a loop. He asked about my favourite programming languages, 
favourite core subjects and my project details. He asked many basic oops 
concepts questions(ex: Define class in real world terms, what is abstraction..). 
He asked a few questions related to DBMS. 
 
After that, he gave some scenarios and wanted me to figure out the appropriate 
Data structures for those. And also he asked justifications for my answers.  
 
After that, he gave one coding question and asked me only main logic I would 
use to solve the question. 
The question was, Given two words find out the first common letter and then 
print both words in matrix format( Ex: Elephant and rat are the given words the 
output should be like 
         R 
Elephant 
         T   ) 
I told several logics and he made corrections in those and told me to optimize 
the space as the output has to be printed in a matrix format and not required to 
be stored in a matrix format. 
 
Round 3: HR interview 
 
Started with my introduction and then she went on to the experience, project 
section, skills section, responsibilities in my resume. She explained the culture, 
location of the company. She asked about the entire interview experience of that 
day. Finally, she offered me to ask a question and I just thanked her for the 
entire amazing and smooth interview process. 
 
 
Harini.V 
virudhagirinadhar@gmail.com 
 
