  
 
   VISA INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
HARISH G S 
2023503525 
B.E - CSE 
MIT Campus. 
 
🔹 Online Assessment (CodeSignal): 
The OA consisted of 4 problem-solving questions. 
1) Time Machine Travel – Calculate total time required when traveling across 
years with specific forward/backward rules. 
2) Octavian Lunar Phases – Determine the lunar phase on a given date with cyclic 
phases. 
3) Library Book Circulation – Simulate library operations like acquisition, checkout, 
and reclassification of books. 
4) Lamp Illumination – Find the coordinate illuminated by the maximum number 
of lamps. 
✅ I was able to solve 3 problems completely and partially solved the 4th (40/100 
test cases). 
🔹 Technical Interview: 
The interview was held for 1 hour in Microsoft Teams. Started with my 
introduction, where I mentioned solving 100+ problems on LeetCode. So, he gave 
me some questions in linked list and trees. 
DSA (pair coding in CodeSignal): 
1)Floyd’s algorithm 
2)DFS in a tree to find depth. 
3)Difference between Tree and Graph. 
DBMS: 
1)Query to find top 3 students by marks from CSE department with department 
name. 
2)Two-phase locking. 
3)Hashing and role of B-Tree. 
Computer Networks: 
1)What is an IP Address? 
2)Difference between UDP and TCP 
Operating Systems: 
Initially I told that I’m studying it in this current semester. So, he asked me to 
explain deadlocks as it is same as in DBMS. 
Projects:  
Explained 2 of 3 projects — one in AI/ML and another Full Stack project. 
🔹 HR Round: 
1)How do you handle stress? 
2)Where do you see yourself in the next 5 years? 
3)What were the challenges you faced as a class representative? 
4)How would your classmates and staff describe you? 
5)How do you deal with the pressure situations? 
6)Then he enquired me whether do you have any questions to ask me. So, I asked 
“How does Visa generate revenue?” and received a polite and insightful answer. 
🔹 Tips: 
 Be confident and productive during the interview as your activeness shows 
your attention. 
 Speak casually and genuinely with the interviewer and try to answer all the 
questions instead of being silent. 
 Practice basic and intermediate DSA problems in leetcode. 
 Gather the concepts of DBMS and OOPS from chatgpt. 
 Go through your projects completely. 
 Be thorough with your resume (including each point). 
 
 
