RAMCO SYSTEMS – INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
Harisangar A P 
2022103554 
CSE batch of 2026, CEG 
About the company 
Ramco Systems Limited is an Indian multinational enterprise software product and platform 
provider disrupting the market with its multi-tenant cloud and mobile-based enterprise 
solutions in Global Payroll, ERP, and M&E MRO for Aviation. Founded in 1997, it is a part of 
Ramco Group, and is headquartered in Chennai, Tamil Nadu. 
 
No of Rounds: 4 (Online Test + Pen and Paper Test + Technical interview - 1 + Technical 
interview - 2) 
Round 1 – Online Assessment  
The online assessment was conducted on the DoSelect platform with total duration of 1hr 15 
mins. Total number of questions are 26 in which first 2 were coding questions. Remaining 24 
questions are Multiple choice from the topics like basic understanding of C Language, 
Operating system, DBMS, Linux commands. 
 
From online test, 73 candidates were selected for the pen and paper assessment the next 
day at CUIC. 
 
Round 2 – Pen and Paper Test 
In this round, all the candidates were given a question papers consisting of 3 coding 
questions. We can write codes in our preferrable language within 1 ½ hrs time limit. The 3 
coding questions asked (from LEETCODE) are:  
• 
Longest Harmonious Subsequence.  
• 
Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters.  
• 
Find Duplicate Subtrees.  
From this round, 42 candidates were selected for the 1st level of Technical Interview. 
This test was conducted in person at CUIC. 
Round 3 – Technical Interview 1 
It took place in person at CUIC. It went for about one hour. 
The interviewer asked my resume and asked me to introduce myself. Then he went through 
my resume thoroughly. 
• 
Project 
• 
DSA – Rotate List, Dijkstra's Algorithm 
• 
DBMS – Normalization and Denormalization, SQL queries (Sub query/Join, Limit 
Offset), Deadlock in DBMS 
• 
OOPS – Polymorphism & types 
• 
OSI Layers – TCP and UDP difference 
• 
React – Lifecycle components, Redux, useMemo (as I mentioned in resume)  
• 
Error vs Exception  
 
From this round, 42 candidates were selected for the 1st level of Technical Interview. 
Round 4 – Technical Interview 2 
The interviewer asked my resume and asked me to introduce myself. This round went for 
One and a half hours. I was able to solve only one DSA problem in the entire interview since 
I hadn’t solved this problem before. 
Gas Station  
I tried multiple solutions and finally I arrived correct solution.  
After this final round, 10 candidates were selected.  
 
Previous Interview Experience 
In my previous interview at Optum and Athenahealth, helped me reach the last round. 
However, I was rejected due to weak theoretical knowledge. This taught me the importance 
of balancing DSA preparation with theory subjects. 
For future candidates, I would suggest being well-prepared with your self-introduction, 
internship experiences (if any), and project details. Communicate with clarity and confidence. 
Even if you don’t know the answer to a question, stay calm, as interviewers often guide you 
toward the right direction. Consistent preparation and strong core concepts are key. This 
was my sixth interview in placements alone, and my continuous efforts helped me succeed 
here. Don’t be discouraged if you’re not selected—the right opportunity will come your way. 
Wishing you all the best! 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions, feel free to reach out to me  
Harisangar A P 
Batch: 2022-2026 
Department: CSE  
Contact No: +91 99528 78399 
Linkedin Id: www.linkedin.com/in/harisangar-a-p 
Email id: apharisangar4@gmail.com  
All the very best! 
