RtBrick Interview Experience 
 
Company Overview: 
RtBrick is a pioneering company in the networking industry, dedicated to 
transforming traditional network infrastructures with innovative software 
solutions. Our mission is to enable service providers to build more flexible, 
scalable, and cost-effective networks using cutting-edge technologies. 
This was the first time Rtbrick recruited the students in CUIC and first time 
they recruited the freshers.  
Role Offered: Associate Software Developer 
Stipend: 35,000 INR per month 
Sequence of Job Selection: Online Assessment, Written test, 3 Technical 
Interviews  
Online Assessment (08.08.2025): 40 mins MCQ Assessment 
The test lasted for 40 mins. The MCQ consisted of topics like Networks especially 
in Subnetting and IP addresses, basics of C, Operating systems. 
On 12.08.2025, I wrote one written test and did 3 technical interviews 
1. Written Test 
• The written test consisted of one question that was an ID allocation 
problem and they insisted us to write the code in C. 
• I was given two functions alloc_id() and free_id(int n). 
• I was asked to write these functions where in alloc_id () I need to 
alloc minimum possible id available in a pool of id from 1-INT_MAX. 
• In free_id (int n), I want to free the given id. 
• They expected to solve using Heap and Priority Queue. 
Out of 32 candidates, 16 were shortlisted. 
2. Technical Interview 1 (40 mins): 
 
The technical interview started with an introduction of myself.  The 
interviewer asked about my Blockchain Project and he asked me to convince him 
to use Blockchain Technology, He also asked, what is Blockchain Technology and 
where it is used. 
 
And he asked me whether I know C, python. But I said I am currently 
practising in Java and he accepted me to write in Java. He asked to implement 
the optimal sorting algorithm. The second question was to implement the 
greatest repeating numbers. Next question was to check if the number is even 
or odd without using modular operator, he was expecting bit manipulation. 
Out of 16, 7 were shortlisted for Technical Interview 2. 
3. Technical Interview 2 (60 mins): 
 
In Second Interview, I was interviewed by a 2011 CEG passed out student 
named Dhivya. She asked the intro and then she asked about the projects. She 
asked whether I know C, Python Because the company works in those languages 
and she asked me to learn C and python to work with. 
 
She asked me to explain about the OSI model with the example of how 
the Mail is send from one user to another user. Next, she asked about the basic 
definitions of Routers, Switches, Hub and what are the differences. Then she 
asked about the difference between IP address and MAC address. And then, she 
asked me whether I know bit wise operator and implement the bitwise addition 
of two numbers and next the question was, what happen when we declare a 
variable internally and how the variable is stored in the computer.  
 
Then I was asked to implement whether the given IP is valid IP or not and 
then next question was to identify the IP addresses in a given text document. 
All the 7 were gone to 3 round Interview. 
4. Technical Interview 3 (45 mins): 
 
My 3rd round interview was conducted by two of the remaining recruiters, 
I was asked to introduce myself and they asked deeply about the projects and 
what was my role in that project I mentioned, After the detailed explanation 
about the by project, they tested my logical thinking by asking basic DSA 
problems in arrays. Then, they asked me to learn python If I was selected for the 
role. I was asked about the types of OS I know and I said that I used Ubuntu in 
VMware.  
Then, they asked me to solve a puzzle which is that given 10 coins placed 
in a table and the person playing was blindfolded he/she doesn’t know whether 
the coin is head or tail, there are 5 heads and 5 tails, the 10 coins are randomly 
split into two halves 5-5 with random distribution of heads and tails, they asked 
me to place same number of heads in two sides. I am able to flip any coin any 
number of times. But I need to place same number of heads in both the side. 
Out of 7, 3 were shortlisted including me. 
Tips: 
• Solve problems in LeetCode, Geeks for Geeks, Hacker Rank.  
• Be prepared in core concepts like DBMS, DSA and OS and be strong in those 
concepts. Study deeply in everything you learn. 
• You should Prepare for each and every word in your resume.  
• You can follow TakeUForward, Neetcode for problem solving. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All the very best!!! 
Inbavanan K – 2022503507 
MIT CSE’26 
Email id: inbavanan964@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
