 
 
 
 
Checktronix India Private Limited 
 
Checktronix India Pvt. Ltd. is an analytics software company that has cracked the genetic code of 
an ever-changing labor market. Powered by the world’s largest and most sophisticated database of 
jobs and talent, we deliver real-time data and breakthrough planning tools that inform careers, 
define academic programs, and shape workforces. 
It is an oncampus and the recruitment process held for 2 days on virtual. 
Totally 5 rounds. 
Round 1: Aptitude and Technical MCQs(Time-60 mins) 
Totally there were 90 questions, It consists of different topics like OS, DataStructures, c & c++ 
finding the output for the program, aptitude and english (Synonyms, Antonyms). 
Round 2: psychometric test 
It's an psychometric test and design test. In psychometric test they put the slides with fast moving 
pictures and we have to give short description of that it's about 25 to 30 animation pictures and they 
put two slides containing six questions to write a short story. In design test they have given five 
scenarios like (Agriculture crop management, Health Department scenarios, Smart city 
concepts,.....) . We have to pick any two scenarios and we have write what are the modules we want 
to have. From that modules we have to draw the diagram. It's our wish we can chose our own like 
architecture, UML or any it can be(Draw diagram with many modules ) 
I have solved both questions. So, I got selected for the Interview. 
 
Round 3: Group Discussion 
I don’t remember the exact topic name, but the topic they were given was easy. 
 
Round 4: (both technical and hr) 
 
1. Introduce your self? 
2. About family? 
3. Programming languages mentioned in the resume 
 
3 coding questions were asked : 
i) Detect cycle in linked list 
ii) Given a string. For the given string if the adjacent characters are same, then we need to delete 
both the characters until there are no adjacters are same and print the remaining string. 
Example :  
String s=” abbaccd” 
Answer : d 
Solution : 
Using stack we can do it. 
iii) For this question they haven’t asked code, they just asked logic of solution 
Question 
: 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-position-element-sorted-array-infinite-
numbers/ 
 
4)Where do you want to see yourself after 5 years?  
5)Asked demo for the project which I was mentioned in resume. I was explained clearly. 
6)Do you git? 
Round 5: (both technical and hr) 
1) questions related to OS like multi tasking and multi threading 
2) Questions about core java 
3) Asked explaination for the algorithem which I was wrote in 2 round 
4) What are the technologies I know? 
5) About family? 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
◆ Data structures 
◆ Database management systems 
◆ Operating system 
◆ Java 
 
Total process was easy. 
Take away: 
 
Having a good knowlege of basics, coding and confidence will help to be placed in this 
company. 
Hope this helps. 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Name : K Venkata Siva Reddy 
Mail id : kudamalasivareddy@gmail.com 
