Versa Networks 
 
Versa is unique among SASE vendors, providing an end-to-end solution 
that both simplifies and secures the modern network. Versa SASE, based on VOS, 
delivers a broad set of capabilities via the cloud and on-premises for building agile 
and secure enterprise networks, as well as highly efficient managed service 
offerings. They came for a 6-month internship and FTE role. 
 
Online Assessment 
It consisted of Technical MCQs and 3 coding questions. 
Coding questions: 
 
1. Easy difficulty – You have been given an array, you have to delete one 
element. After deleting the element, the difference between the max 
element and the min element should be maximum. I was able to pass all 
the test cases. 
  
2. Medium difficulty – It's like finding the nth term of a Fibonacci series with 
some modifications. Though the question seems to be easy, one case failed 
and I could not figure it out. So, I was able to solve only 4 out of 5 test 
cases. 
  
3. Very Hard difficulty – You have been given an array A and array B. Choose 
any subarray in the array A and sort it. By doing this operation any number 
of times, we need to find that if Array A can be transformed into Array B. 
The Brute force solution did not work. I was able to pass only 1 out of 5 
test cases. 
 
Interview 
Technical Interview 1: 
 
Duration: 45 mins 
Questions Asked: 
1. Tell me about yourself. 
2. Tell me about your projects. 
3. Linked list and types of linked list. 
4. BFS and DFS traversal. 
5. Program to find the height of a binary tree. 
6. Query to find the second max salary in the salary table. 
7. Query to fetch the data of the first n rows from the table. 
8. Joins in SQL. 
9. Integrity constraints in DBMS. 
10. Basic questions in PHP as I mentioned it in my skills. 
11. Basic JavaScript questions. 
12. What is Overloading and Overriding? 
13. What is Multiple Inheritance? 
14. What is Virtual Inheritance? 
15. Types of loops in C++. Difference between while and do while loop 
16. Find the output of the code snippets. 
17. Asked me about my experience in CTF. 
 
Technical Interview 2: 
 
Duration: 45 mins 
Questions Asked: 
1. Tell me about yourself 
2. Tell me about your projects 
3. Asked about the SDLC model that I have used while building my project. 
4. A matrix-based DSA question. 
5. Computer Network Questions 
6. Operating System questions 
7. Database-related questions. 
  
Result: Selected. Totally, five got the offer from Versa Networks. 
 
Tips: 
1. Be strong in CS fundamental concepts like OS, DBMS, CN, OOPS 
2. Be good at DSA. 
3. Have a clear idea about your projects. You have to answer any questions 
based on your project. 
4. Be strong in any one of the programming languages. 
5. Research about the company. 
6. Ask some good questions at the end of the interview. 
7. Be good at communication. 
8. It is okay if you don’t answer one or two questions in the interview. They 
won’t expect you to answer all the questions. How you are handling the 
unknown question matters. 
 
All the best. 
 
Name: K. Gokul 
CSE, CEG’24 
Contact: 7695909568 
 
