VIVRITI CAPITAL PRIVATE LIMITED 
Vivriti Capital is a FinTech company. It is a marketplace that brings together capital markets 
investors with institutions, small enterprises and individuals. It started with a mission to offer 
efficient and customized financial solutions to individuals, enterprises and institutions.  
There were 3 rounds in the interview process 
A. Online test 
B. Technical interview – 2 rounds 
C. HR interview 
 
A. Online test 
20 MCQs and 2 coding questions 
MCQs from DBMS, OS, Data structures. 
Coding questions based on graph. 
B. Technical interview 
Round 1: 
1. Introduce yourself. 
2. I was asked to explain a particular project from my resume. 
3. I was asked to code for the following questions: 
i. 
Find the triplets in the array – Adding three numbers should give zero. 
ii. 
There are a series of buildings in a lane with different heights. Find which are all 
the buildings which will experience sunrise and sunset (considering the heights 
and shadows). 
4. Normalization in DBMS. 
5. Difference between delete and truncate table in DBMS 
6. Explain the ACID properties in DBMS. 
The interview went for around an hour. I answered all questions and I was called for next 
round. 
Round 2: 
1. Find the different methods to solve the problems, analyse the time and space complexity 
and provide the optimal solution. 
i. 
Given an array of elements each present twice whereas one element is present 
only once. Find the element. 
ii. 
Given an array of prime numbers in which one element is duplicated. Find the 
element (using prime number properties). 
 
 
2. Difference between process and thread (real life example).  
3. Normalize a schema. (A student detail database) 
The interview went for around 1.15 hours. I had few ups and downs in the interview but it 
was a very good experience.  
C. HR interview 
 
1. Introduce yourself. 
2. What are your hobbies? 
Told me I was offered a job. 
Topics to be focussed: 
➢ Data structures 
➢ Database Management Systems 
➢ Operating systems 
Take away: 
Whatever we learn, learn it completely. This was a major take away from my placement experience.  
Experience from previous interviews: 
1. Apart from all the coding and concept learning, good aptitude skill plays a major role and in 
some interviews, I was asked to print the given pattern using arrays, it doesn’t require any 
deep concept learning, it just depends on the thinking. Take your own time and practice more 
problems. Solving problems in geeks for geeks and leetcode helped me.  
2. All it takes is a positive and learn from mistakes attitude. 
Thank you. 
All the best. 
 
 
Kanika K. 
kanikakandasamy@gmail.com 
