 
 APPIAN INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE  
Appian Corporation is an American cloud computing and enterprise software company 
headquartered in McLean, Virginia, part of the Dulles Technology Corridor. The company sells a 
platform as a service (PaaS) for building enterprise software applications. It is focused on low-
code development, process mining, business process management, and case management 
markets in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia. Appian offers a low-
code platform with a visual interface and pre-built development modules. As with other low-code 
platforms, it enables businesses to create apps and automations using little or no code.  
There were four rounds of interviews: 
 1. Coding round 
 2. Technical Round 1 
 3. Technical Round 2 
 4. Behavioral  round  
Coding Round:  
Candidates were sent a link to attend the online coding round, which was held on the glider.ai 
platform. The platform was heavily proctored which included video, audio and screen sharing. 
We had to solve three questions in 60 mins. Make sure to properly allocate your time for every 
problem. 
 
1) There is a line consisting of people from different groups. We need to rearrange the line so 
that people from the same group can stand together. If all the persons who belong to the same 
group stand in line, then the names of the persons can be replaced with the group name. The 
order of the groups in the line and the order of persons within the group in the line should not 
change.  
Approach: Since the group was already implemented with the help of classes, simply traversing 
through the given list of people and maintaining a hashmap for the groups would do the trick.  
2) Tickets are sold to a concert in a particular order. The number of tickets, the step size, and 
the offset will be given. Number of Tickets: This is the total count of tickets available for the 
concert. Step Size: This is the number of tickets to skip before selecting the next ticket. For 
example, if the step size is 3, every fourth ticket will be chosen. (It can also be a negative 
number.) Offset: This is the starting position from which the ticket selection begins. It can be 
thought of as the initial position in the sequence of tickets where the process starts. The 
challenge is to generate a sequence of ticket numbers based on these parameters, reflecting 
the order in which tickets are sold. 
Approach: This problem is extremely similar to that of the Josephus Problem and can be solved 
in the same way.  
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/josephus-problem/ 
3) You will be given a set of paths where each path consists of a set of strings representing a 
path to a particular page starting from the ‘Main’ (homepage) element. You need to construct a 
tree representing every path given as input. The root node will be the ‘Main’ element 
Breadcrumbs problem)  
Approach: This problem involved a class implementation and if you are already familiar with 
Tries category of problems, it would be really helpful. 
 
My only advice would be to solve as many different problems as possible. 22 of us got selected 
for the next round.  
Technical Round 1:  
I was asked to code on the glider.ai platform again but this time it had the pair programming 
interface. I had to identify Fibonacci numbers from a stream of numbers. The catch was that we 
won’t know what number comes next. I gave him all possible ways to identify and generate 
Fibonacci sequences and coded the solution by using a Hashset to keep track of already found 
Fibonacci number. The interviewer was satisfied with my optimal solution. He asked me about 
my projects, the difficulties I faced in building them, and the way I solved those problems. At 
last, he asked me if I had any questions to ask him. This round mainly focused on my problem-
solving skills.  
Technical Round 2:  
This round revolved primarily around my resume. I was asked about the subjects that I like. I 
was about my favorite language and the reason behind it. I was also asked about the company 
itself. (Pro Tip: Scroll through the company’s website before an interview so that you could 
score some brownie points in the interview. It is to simply show that you care). Since I 
expressed my interest in DBMS, the interviewer asked about some basic principles in the 
subject. At last, he also gave me a chance to ask him a question. I was asked technical 
questions in this round, which weren’t too tough to answer. If you are given an opportunity to 
talk about your favorite subject make sure you are well versed in it. 
Behavioral Round:  
This was all about your tenacity and confidence. I was asked some basic questions regarding 
my academics and as well as my personal life.I was asked personal background questions as 
well. Even in this round, I was given a chance to ask the interviewer a question. Asking 
mundane questions will benefit nobody. Make sure you have awesome question to ask the 
interviewer. 
 Finally, 5 of us (4 of us from CEG and 1 from MIT) got selected for the position of Software 
Engineer Intern.  
Key takeaways:  
1. Optimal solutions with their complexities is a must. 
2. Have a wide plethora of problems in your arsenal.  
3. This is not a numbers game. So keep calm and do what you are able to. 
4. Having good projects in your resume is definitely a bonus. 
5. Keep calm and expect nothing. (Stay positive though) 
 
Hope whoever reads this writes one just like I did :) 
 
 All the best  
M. Karthik Krishna 
karthikk1006@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
Glory be to Neetcode!!! 
