                                                            
 
INTERNSHIP EXPERIENCE 
 
Accenture is a Fortune Global 500 company and a leading multinational professional services 
firm that empowers businesses, governments, and organizations to enhance their digital 
infrastructure, streamline operations, and accelerate growth. Leveraging cutting-edge 
technology, including cloud, data, and AI, Accenture drives transformative change with 
strong ecosystem partnerships and unmatched industry expertise. 
Their services span Strategy & Consulting, Technology, Operations, Industry X, and Song, 
enabling them to deliver comprehensive solutions at speed and scale. Guided by a culture of 
shared success and a commitment to creating 360° value, Accenture builds lasting, trusted 
relationships with its clients worldwide. For more details visit www.accenture.com. 
Internship Selection Process: 
The selection process involves four rounds. 
Round 1: Cognitive and Technical Assessment 
This round evaluates logical, analytical, and coding skills through a 90-minute test consisting 
of 90 multiple-choice questions. The sections include, 
• 
English Ability 
• 
Critical Reasoning and Problem Solving 
• 
Pseudocode (determine output from a given pseudocode) 
• 
Common Applications and MS Office 
• 
Networking Security and Cloud 
There is no negative marking, but this is an elimination round. Successful candidates receive 
an email on the same day to proceed to the coding round. 
Round 2: Coding Assessment 
This round requires solving two coding problems within 45 minutes using one of the 
following languages: C, C++, Java, or Python. The questions typically range from simple to 
medium difficulty, with a focus on topics like vectors. This is also an elimination round, and 
qualified candidates receive an email about moving to communication assessment. 
Round 3: Communication Assessment 
This round, conducted 3–4 days after the coding assessment, evaluates communication 
skills. This round takes over 25–30 minutes. A calm, noise-free environment is essential as 
the system detects background sounds. Although it is not an elimination round, strong 
performance is crucial.  
 
This assessment consists of  
• Reading: 8 questions 
• Listen and repeat: 16 questions 
• Questions (this or that type): 24 questions 
• Sentence building (listen to jumbled sentence and reform it): 10 questions 
• Story retelling: 3 questions 
• Open questions: 2 questions 
Round 4: Interview  
     The final round involves selecting an interview slot. The interview is 1-on-1 round and 
typically lasts 15–20 minutes. Communication skills and confidence plays a major role in 
interview. The questions asked to me are as follows, 
1. Introduce yourself. 
2. Tell me about your project. 
3. Did you face any conflicts during your project?  
4. How did you overcome those conflicts? 
5. What is your least favourite subject? 
6. Have you interacted with IT professionals? 
7. If given the chance to interact with IT professionals, what would you ask or learn 
from them? 
8. When did you felt that you are failed? 
9. Do you have any questions for me? 
Also focus some of the basic foundation topics in computer science. 
Out of 60-70 students attending interview, 5 got selected for the internship. 
Take away: 
Having a good basic knowledge of coding, theoretical concepts, and communication skills 
helps you to succeed. 
Hope my experience helps you. 
Thank you, all the best for your future goals. 
 
Name: KIRUTHIGA P M 
Email: pmkiruthiga17@gmail.com 
