Appian Interview Experience
Appian is a low-code automation platform that helps organizations build business 
applications quickly and efficiently. It combines process automation, AI, data integration, 
and workflow management into a single unified platform.
Founded: 1999, headquartered in Virginia, USA.
Core Feature: Drag-and-drop interface to design apps with minimal hand-coding.
Use Cases: Business process management (BPM), case management, workflow 
automation.
Target Users: Enterprises looking to digitize and automate complex processes.
Appian is widely used in industries like finance, healthcare, government, and manufacturing 
to streamline operations, improve compliance, and reduce time to market.
Role : Software Engineer Intern (2 months)
No of Rounds : 4
Round 1 : Online Technical Assessment (90 minutes)
Platform :  Glider.ai
No of Questions :  3
Question 1 : 
Merge Intervals - LeetCode
Question 2 :  
Find First and Last Position of Element in Sorted Array - LeetCode
Question 3 : 
Missing And Repeating | Practice | GeeksforGeeks
The extra part in the question was that the numbers from 1 to n were split into m disjoint 
teams. The teams matrix was given. The missing and duplicate numbers will be in any one of 
the team, if so then return “Valid Team”. If the missing number and duplicate numbers were in 
different teams , then return “Not a Valid Team”. If they were in Multiple teams return 
“Multiple Teams”.
They expected to return the values in a structure (in cpp) .
struct Result {
int missing;
int duplicate;
string team;
}
Based on the performance , 42 students from CEG and MIT were shorlisted for the further 
rounds. The further rounds were in person rounds at CUIC.
Round 2 : Technical Round (30 - 35 minutes)
In this round, the interviewer asked me for my resume and asked me to tell me about the 
projects that I had done. I had mentioned two projects on my resume. I explained him about 
it. He asked why I did choose the specific tech stack and the pros and cons of it. I also 
explained about the difficulties that I faced and the lessons I learned from them.
He asked me about my favorite programming language and why it was my favorite. If I were to 
convince my junior or friend to learn that programming language, how would I do so.
If me and my team-mate have an argument/dissent about implementing a particular feature, 
how would I resolve it. I answered this based on my experience working in team - projects.
I mentioned I had used Firebase for my project. He said me that he is a fan of Firebase and 
asked me to tell more about it. Then, he drew three RDBMS Tables in a paper and asked me if i 
were to model this is in a NoSQL Database Schema, how would I do so. 
Finally , he asked me if there was any questions to him from me. I asked him a few questions 
about Appian’s products and work-style.
Students shortlisted moved to the next round.
Round 3 : Techno-cum-Behavioural Round (10 - 15 minutes)
In this round, the interviwer asked me to explain about one challenging project, that I had 
done. He inquired me about my current internship and how did I get selected for it.
He also asked me to ask questions to him.
Student shortlisted moved to the next round.
Round 4 : HR Round (5 minutes)
The interviewer asked about my native place, my CGPA. He asked me about my favorite 
programming language and the books / youtube channels I referred and he noted them down.
He asked me about the LLM’s that I use and the name of the interviewer who took the 
technical interview for me.
He also asked me to ask questions to him.
The results were announced in the night and 12 of us from CEG and MIT got selected as 
Software Engineer Interns at Appian.
Key Takeaways : 
Round 1 : 
The questions were in the range easy - medium leetcode / gfg style problems.
Write proper clean code and give meaningful variable names.
Array based questions were most common.
Try to give optimised approach.
Resources :
takeuforward - Best Coding Tutorials for Free
Round 2 / 3 / 4: 
Your Resume is the key to your success. Never include anything in the resume that you 
don’t know.
Be strong and clear with what is in your resume.
Include at least one strong project that you did, and structure the interview around it.
DSA questions can be expected, but since I had a strong project , the interviewer did not 
ask me them. Anyway, be prepared with topics like array, strings, linked lists.
Be confident with your answers.
Research about the company a little, and ask questions to the interviewer that are 
meaningful and impactful.
Listen to the Pre-Placement Talk to know about the role you are applying for and what 
they expect from you.
CGPA is one of the shortlisting criteria for Appian , so try to maintain a CGPA of atleast 
8.5.
All the best!
Kokhulash MS
Gmail | LinkedIn | Phone
