         WEX Interview Experience 
- 
Krisna VJ (Batch 2022 - 26) 
About the Company: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Previous Experience: 
I’ve been previously interviewed at, 
● Barclays (intern) – I directly jumped to the optimal solution instead of providing 
step-by-step explanations. 
● Accenture (intern) – Faced an HR interview where the interviewer wasn’t satisfied 
with my answers. 
● Infinera (placement) – Answered all questions on Computer Architecture, 
Assembly Code, OS and the interviewer even appreciated me. During the DSA 
question, he expected a solution in C++, which I’m not familiar with. 
 
WEX Recruitment Process: 
1. Round 0 - Online Assessment (offline @CUIC) 
2. Round 1 - Technical Interview I (~1hr) 
3. Round 2 - Technical Interview II (~45mins) 
4. Round 3 - HR Interview (~15 to 20mins) 
 
 
WEX Inc. is a global financial technology service provider 
headquartered in Portland, Maine, offering corporate payment and 
information management solutions for businesses, particularly in the 
fleet, travel, and healthcare sectors. Founded in 1983, the company 
provides payment processing, fleet management, and employee 
benefit plan administration services globally through its WEX-branded 
and partner-branded products. WEX's services help streamline 
operations by automating manual processes and simplifying 
complexities for businesses worldwide. 
Round 0: Coding Round 
 
It all happened in a single day - first a PPT presentation, followed by the OA and 
interview in the afternoon. The coding round was conducted on the Hirepro Platform & 
consisted of 15 MCQs and 2 Coding questions. 
 
● MCQs - Focused mainly on DSA, DBMS & OS. 
 
● Coding Question 1: (Easy but slightly tricky) 
 
○ Description: Given n & k, find the first n prime numbers that ends with k. 
Add 2 & 5 to the list and return the answer in sorted order as a space-
separated string. 
 
○ My solution: Found the first n primes ending with k (which can only be 1, 
3, 7, or 9), then converted the ArrayList to a TreeSet for sorted insertion, 
then added 2 and 5, and finally printed them as a String.. 
 
● Coding Question 2: (Medium) 
 
○ Description: For a chessboard of size MxN (with the top cell  at (1,1)) and 
a bishop is placed at (x,y), find the number of cells that can be visited in k 
moves. (A bishop can walk through any cells till the boundary in single 
move) 
 
○ My Solution: Performed a BFS from (x, y). For each diagonal, moved to 
the boundary in one step while counting it as a single move. For every valid 
unvisited cell, marked it visited and added it to the queue with moves+1, as 
long as moves <= k. Finally, counted all visited cells. 
 
○ Similar Question: Total Moves For Bishop 
 
I successfully solved both questions and submitted my solutions ~12 mins before 
the deadline. Out of 243 candidates (both CEG & MIT combined), 31 were shortlisted for 
the next round. 
 
 
Round 1 (Offline): Technical Round I 
This was an in-person interview held at CUIC (lasting nearly an hour). For the first 
5 mins, the interviewer reviewed my OA - asking how I approached the coding round and 
which language I used.  After a brief discussion, we directly moved on to the technical 
questions, where I was asked to write and explain most of my solutions. 
 
● I was asked to share my resume first, and then the interview began. 
● The interviewer asked about my primary language (mine is Java) and requested 
me to write code and perform a dry run for the given test cases. 
● No self intro, directly 2 DSA questions 
○ Maximum subarray sum & return the sub-array. I used Kadane’s algorithm 
and also kept track of the indices to return the sub-array. 
○ Multithreading - One thread had to sum the even elements and another the 
odd elements of an array in parallel. I provided 2 approaches - Creating 2 
threads using lambda expression in the main method & overriding run() 
method in 2 diff thread classes. 
● Next, he asked about my Java knowledge. I said - I mainly work with Java 8, 
familiar with Collections, but not very experienced with Stream APIs. 
● Follow-up questions included, 
○ Which Sort does JAVA use in Arrays.sort() - I said hybrid (Merge sort + 
Insertion sort), but I was partially wrong. It uses both Dual-Pivot Quick sort 
& hybrid one. 
○ Thread vs Runnable, and the role of join() 
○ Map vs HashMap 
○ How HashMap works in JAVA - I explained abt hashing & collision handling 
but realized I had got it the wrong way. 
● Then some resume-related questions, 
○ Asked about my hackathon experiences  
○ What ML models did you use? 
○ How will you finetune an LLM? 
● Finally, another simple DSA question, 
○ Implement a Stack using Queues - I provided a solution with O(1) for push 
and O(n) for pop. Can also be done vice versa. 
 
I was able to answer most of the questions correctly. The round ended with me 
asking for feedback, and the interviewer pointed out that I need to strengthen my deep 
understanding of Java. 
 
 
Round 2 (Offline): Technical Round II 
 
The interviewer was very calm and gave me enough time to think, even for simple 
questions. I formally greeted him & he first introduced himself and briefly explained the 
tech stack they use. Then, 
 
● He asked me to introduce myself - While I was speaking, he started noting details 
like my CGPA, coding profiles, and achievements (from my intro and resume). 
● He asked what my primary language was, I answered JAVA. 
● He then moved on to a series of questions, 
○ What do you know abt NoSQL? 
○ ACID vs BASE properties. 
○ What do you know about SOLID principles? 
○ HTTP vs Socket 
○ RestAPI & common HTTP methods; difference b/w put and patch. 
○ What are Status codes - I explained the categories (2xx, 3xx, 4xx, 5xx) and 
their purposes. 
○ What is 429 status code was - I answered “Too Many Requests” and added 
that I had used it in one of my projects. 
● After hearing about the 429 status code, he became curious and asked about the 
project. I explained it was a microservice project using MERN with Cloudinary for 
cloud storage. He asked several follow-up questions, 
○ What is rate limiting? 
○ Proxy vs Reverse Proxy 
○ What services are used? How do they communicate? What is MQ? 
- I explained the data flow from the Auth service to the Upload service and 
how they communicated using the pub-sub method. 
○ Why Cloudinary over S3? 
○ Did you deploy or are you planning to deploy? - I answered that I hadn’t 
deployed it yet because my primary focus was on design and development. 
 
 
Throughout the interview, I got stuck on a few questions (like SOLID principles), 
he calmly advised me, saying that if I didn’t know the answer, it’s better to simply say “I 
don’t know” rather than trying to guess. At the end, he asked whether I had any questions 
for him, I asked about how WEX’s 6 values help while working in a team. 
 
 
 
Round 3 (Offline): HR Round 
 
I was the first one to enter the HR round. The interviewer introduced herself and 
briefly explained my role, the company’s location, and other basic details. Then, 
 
● She asked me to introduce myself. 
● She asked me about my experience in the previous rounds. 
● She asked about my hackathon experiences, coding profiles and my family 
background 
● Apart from studies, what will you do in your free-time? What do you do in 
college?  
● What is your role in these clubs? How do you manage your responsibilities? 
● At the end, I asked her the same question I had asked in the previous round. 
 
 
Then she said, “Nice meeting you. Please wait while we discuss with our team”. 
The results were announced on the same day (around 10pm). In the end, 3 of us received 
offers, and I am happy to be one of them. 
 
 
Tips: 
● Strong knowledge in DSA, OS, CN, DBMS, and OOPS is required - many 
resources are available online like Striver’s A2Z sheet, GFG, Youtube, etc.. 
● Prepare your self-introduction well. Focus on these key areas: your interests, 
technical skills (tech stacks), relevant projects, and any notable achievements. 
● Experiences from projects, hackathons, and clubs can’t be gained at the last 
minute. My participation in hackathons & clubs, in particular, helped me a lot during 
my interview. 
● Interviewers consistently noted my understanding of core concepts, system design 
capabilities, and the way I approached questions. So, be confident and be 
prepared. 
● Don’t get demotivated if you don’t get placed early; stay confident and focus on 
your progress.  
 
Contact Details: 
● Krisna VJ - https://www.linkedin.com/in/krisna-vj 
● Mail: vjkrisna995@gmail.com 
 
ALL THE BEST!!! 
