         APPIAN INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
Appian Corporation is an American cloud computing and enterprise 
software company headquartered in McLean, Virginia, part of the Dulles 
Technology Corridor. The company sells a platform as a service (PaaS) for 
building enterprise software applications. It is focused on low-code 
development, process 
mining, business 
process 
management, and case 
management markets 
in North 
America, Europe, 
the Middle 
East, and Southeast Asia. Appian offers a low-code platform with a visual 
interface and pre-built development modules. As with other low-code platforms, 
it enables businesses to create apps and automations using little or no code. 
There were four rounds of interviews. 
1. Coding round 
2. Technical Round 1 
3. Technical Round 2 
4. HR round 
Coding Round: 
Candidates were sent a link to attend the online coding round, which was 
held on the Glider platform. We had to solve three questions in an hour. 
Qn1:  
There is a line consisting of people from different groups. We need to 
rearrange the line so that people from the same group can stand together. If all 
the persons who belong to the same group stand in line, then the names of the 
persons can be replaced with the group name. The order of the groups in the 
line and the order of persons within the group in the line should not change. 
Qn2:  
Tickets are sold to a concert in a particular order. The number of tickets, 
the step size, and the offset will be given. 
Number of Tickets: This is the total count of tickets available for the concert. 
Step Size: This is the number of tickets to skip before selecting the next ticket. 
For example, if the step size is 3, every fourth ticket will be chosen. (It can also 
be a negative number.) 
Offset: This is the starting position from which the ticket selection begins. It can 
be thought of as the initial position in the sequence of tickets where the process 
starts. 
The challenge is to generate a sequence of ticket numbers based on these 
parameters, reflecting the order in which tickets are sold. 
Qn3:  
You will be given a set of paths where each path consists of a set of strings 
representing a path to a particular page starting from the ‘Main’ (homepage) 
element. You need to construct a tree representing every path given as input. 
The root node will be the ‘Main’ element (Breadcrumbs problem). 
Focus on your problem-solving approach to provide an optimal solution. 
22 of us got selected for the next round. 
Technical Round 1: 
I was asked to code on the Glider platform again (pair programming 
interview). I need to find the Fibonacci numbers from a stream of numbers. My 
interviewer helped me optimize the code. I was also asked to explain the logic to 
him. Later, he asked me about my projects, the difficulties I faced in building 
them, and the way I solved those problems. At last, he asked me if I had any 
questions to ask him. This round mainly focused on my problem-solving skills. 
Technical Round 2: 
This round revolved primarily around my resume. I was asked about the 
subjects that I like. Since I expressed my interest in DSA, the interviewer asked 
me about the data structures that I have worked with and also asked me about 
how to choose the right data structure for a problem. I was asked about 
asymptotic notations, and he wanted to find the worst-case time complexity of 
quick sort. He asked me whether I had taken part in any coding contests (CP 
contests). At last, he also gave me a chance to ask him a question. I was asked 
technical questions in this round, which weren’t too tough to answer. Just 
brushing through the DSA concepts that we have learnt in our earlier semesters 
is enough. 
HR Round: 
Even in this round, I was asked a few technical questions related to DBMS. 
I was asked about the many-to-many relation and the number of tables required 
to 1on RDBMS. I was asked personal background questions. Even in this round, I 
was given a chance to ask the interviewer a question. Make sure that your 
question is impressive. 
Finally, 5 of us (4 of us from CEG and 1 from MIT) got selected for the 
position of Software Engineer Intern. 
Key takeaways  
1. Try to provide optimal solutions 
2. Time management (you need to code for 3 problems in an hour) 
3. Focus on DSA 
4. Answer the questions confidently 
5. Questions are based on what you have provided in the resume. So have a 
clear understanding of concepts mentioned in your resume. 
6. CGPA plays a crucial role here. Try to maintain a CGPA of 8.5 and above. 
Hope this helps  
All the best 
Name: M.Madhubaalika 
Email: madhubaalika@gmail.com 
Phone No: 7305897553 
 
