NatWest Group Interview Experience (Internship)  
 
About NatWest Group 
NatWest Group, formerly known as RBS Group is a British banking and insurance 
holding company based in Edinburgh, Scotland. It is considered one of the “Big Four” banks in 
the UK. It is also known as a bank of brands offering personal and business banking, insurance 
and corporate finance.  
 
Eligibility Criteria 
●​ 6.0 CGPA from 10th onwards  
●​ No current arrears 
 
Selection Process 
1.​ Online Assessment (Offline at CUIC) 
2.​ Pre-Placement Talk (Offline at CUIC) 
3.​ Technical + HR Interview (Offline at CUIC) 
 
Preparation Overview 
The coding questions were mostly array based and on the easier side. Try to solve 
questions on Leetcode, Hackerrank, GeeksForGeeks to improve your problem solving skills so 
you can easily solve the questions. Find a study sheet or plan you like and try to fully solve it to 
help cover all the fundamentals and give you direction. Make sure you understand the solutions 
instead of trying to memorize them. This understanding will also help you clearly explain your 
solution if you are asked a DSA problem in the interview as well as to improve your chances in 
online assessments.  
Since the aptitude questions required careful consideration and time management, try to 
solve aptitude questions on pattern completion, graphs and chart analysis, logical reasoning, and 
English aptitude on IndiaBIX or other platforms to get a better idea.  
 Go through common interview questions and study DSA, OOPS, DBMS, OS, Networks, 
and SDLC concepts,  as well as the fundamentals of at least one programming language.  
Be confident in everything you include in your resume. Anything you mention in your 
resume is fair game to be asked and expected to be answered with clarity. If you are not 
confident, exclude it. Have a good understanding of your projects and be ready to explain them 
and answer follow up questions.  
 
Online Assessment  
It was conducted on the SHL Platform at CUIC. It consisted of 4 sections that could be 
completed in any order.  
 
1.​ English Aptitude (15 minutes, 12 questions, no free navigation) 
●​ Reading comprehension, detecting what is wrong with the sentence, finding the 
synonym/antonym, finding the correct sequence of sentences,  etc.  
●​ IndiaBIX English aptitude has many similar questions.  
 
2.​ General Aptitude (36 minutes, 24 questions, no free navigation) 
●​ This section was totally different from other aptitude questions I’ve seen online and in 
other online assessments.  
●​ The questions required basic arithmetic and logical reasoning, but what made it difficult 
was the totally different format, time constraint and lack of free navigation, making time 
management crucial.  
●​ It was interactive and had questions that required us to select dates, schedule meetings, 
assign rooms based on a given criteria, adjust bar graphs and pie charts to reflect correct 
percentage values which are to be calculated based on given information, as well as to 
determine the next pattern given a sequence.  
●​ There was an option to attend a practice test, and if this option is available, please opt fto 
complete it as it helped me get acquainted with the format and helped me to avoid 
wasting time during the actual test  
 
3.​ Coding (45 minutes, 2 questions, free navigation) 
●​ The driver code was provided and only the required function needed to be implemented, 
though this is not the case for many companies where you need to code from scratch.  
●​ However if you require any data structure or algorithm that is not already included, you 
will have to explicitly add the header or import it yourself  
●​ The questions were both easy level array-based questions  
●​ Each participant randomly received a different set of questions.  
 
Question 1:  Return the odd-indexed elements of an array after sorting it in ascending order  
Input : [3, 1, 6, 6, 5, 7] 
Output : [ 3, 6, 7] 
 
Question 2:   Return the maximum perfect square within a given range. The question was 
straightforward, but not so explicitly given 
Input : [3, 26] 
Output : 25 
 
4.​ SQL (15 minutes, 10 questions, free navigation) 
●​ Query based questions were asked where we were supposed to determine the output, 
guess the query based on output, as well as conceptual questions.  
 
It seemed that the aptitude section was the deciding factor in many cases in terms of who 
got shortlisted, but doing well on the coding and other sections will always improve your 
chances.  
23 students were shortlisted after this round. The shortlist was announced the same week 
the day before the interview.  
 
Technical + HR Interview 
It took place at CUIC following an offline Pre-Placement Talk (PPT). In general, there 
was only one round of interview for panels with two members, though some panels had only one 
member and those students had to go through two rounds of interviews.  
First, the interviewers introduced themselves and then I did the same. Try to prepare 
something short but memorable about yourself, your experiences or your goals. Though I was 
visibly nervous in the beginning, the conversational nature of the interview helped me feel less 
nervous. 
They asked me follow up questions based on my introduction and then asked me 
questions about one of my projects, my contributions, how I would handle certain situations 
relating to the project such as if the other contributors are not willing to implement my ideas.  
Then I was asked to write a simple SQL join query after which I was asked what 
language I felt was my strongest. Since I had answered Java, I was then asked general Java 
questions like what is garbage collection, error handling, Scanner vs BufferedReader, etc. 
The flow of the interview is very much guided by your responses and many questions 
were asked from terms I had mentioned in my answers, so don’t mention anything you can’t 
answer a follow up question for. For example, when talking about garbage collection I had 
off-handedly mentioned the finalize() method and the immediate follow up question was to 
explain what it was.  
I was then asked to write pseudocode for an array-based question. When asked to write 
pseudocode, always try to explain your train of thought including any bruteforce solution that 
comes to mind, and always remember to explain any edge cases that may be present.  
 
Question :  Given an array of characters, sequentially print the character and its frequency 
Input : [a, a, b, b, b, c, d, d, e] 
Output : a2 b3 c1 d2 e1 
 
I was finally asked if I had any questions for them. I asked how I could better equip 
myself for this internship if given the opportunity. This question turned into a series of HR 
questions where I was asked how I would learn new things, and what I think is required for 
effective team collaboration.  
Try to prepare a question beforehand based on something that you want to know, or 
something you learned from the company’s PPT etc. The interviewers were very kind and 
engaging making for an overall good experience. 
 
Finally, 9 students were shortlisted for the internship, and I am very grateful for the opportunity.   
 
General Advice 
I’m not sure how qualified I am to give advice :), but from personal experience, the main 
thing I would stress is to not lose faith in yourself if you are not shortlisted. The mental toll and 
seriousness of the whole process only sunk in for me when companies actually started coming 
despite previous warnings. This process has quite a bit of luck involved, but the only thing we 
can do to improve our chances is to keep practicing, which is hard to do when it feels like there 
is no end in sight. If you find yourself struggling with this, remember that you are not alone, and 
many before you have felt exactly the same. So, keep going and may you see the light at the end 
of the tunnel!  
 
Resources 
1.​ LeetCode, HackerRank, GeeksForGeeks, takeUForward, IndiaBIX 
2.​ https://leetcode.com/studyplan/leetcode-75/ 
3.​ https://leetcode.com/problem-list/oizxjoit/ 
4.​ https://takeuforward.org/interviews/must-do-questions-for-dbms-cn-os-interviews-sde-co
re-sheet/ 
5.​ https://takeuforward.org/interviews/strivers-sde-sheet-top-coding-interview-problems 
6.​ C.O.D.E series conducted by ACM-CEG 
 
Contact 
Marushika Manohar 
Phone : +91 73059 66278 
Linkedin : https://www.linkedin.com/in/marushika-manohar/ 
 
All the best! 
