 
INTERNSHIP EXPERIENCE 
 
ABOUT THE COMPANY 
 
Accenture is a multinational professional services company originating in the United 
States and headquartered in Dublin, Ireland, that specializes in information technology 
services and management consulting. Accenture provides a wide range of services and 
solutions in strategy, consulting, digital, technology, and operations. The company helps 
organizations to improve their performance and create sustainable value for their 
stakeholders. 
 
INTERVIEW PROCESS 
 
Total Rounds : 4 
 
Round 1 : Cognitive and Technical Assessment 
 
This is a 90 minutes assessment consisting of 90 MCQs covering the following sections: 
• English Ability 
• Critical Thinking 
• Abstract Reasoning 
• Common Application and MS Office 
• Pseudo Code 
• Fundamental of Networking, Security and Cloud 
This is an eliminatory round. Within 5 - 10 minutes of submitting the test you will get 
the results and candidates who have cleared the assessment will receive an email to proceed 
to the second round. 
 
Round 2 : Coding Assessment 
In this round there will be 2 coding questions that can be solved in your preferred 
programming language : C, C++, Java, Python, … within 45 minutes. The questions will range 
from easy to medium difficulty. This is also an elimination round and successful candidates 
will receive a mail regarding the next round. 
 
Round 3 : Communication Assessment 
 
After 3 days, you will receive a mail to participate in the communication assessment. 
This is a mandatory round but not eliminatory. This round is designed to evaluate your English 
pronunciation, speaking, and listening skills. This round will take around 30 minutes. Make 
sure to sit in a noise free environment. Consists of the following sections : 
• Reading 
• Listen and Repeat 
• Answering to Questions asked 
• Building a sentence from the given jumbled words 
• Story retelling 
• Answering Open ended Questions 
After completing this round you will receive a mail to choose the time slot for your 
interview. 
Round 4 : Interview 
 
The interview will be conducted after 3 days of your communication assessment in 
your preferred time slot. The interview will last around 10 – 15 minutes. It was a 1 on 1 
round and the interviewer asked me the following questions: 
1. Tell me about yourself. 
2. He asked me to explain about one of the projects mentioned in my resume. 
3. He asked me if it was an individual project or team project? 
4. How did we split the project among the team? 
5. Difficulties faced during the project 
6. Who evaluated your project and what was the feedback? 
7. Have you implemented the change provided by your evaluator? 
8. Asked me about my hobbies  
9. Do you have any questions for me? 
 Take Away 
 
Be honest with whatever you mentioned in your resume and have a clear knowledge 
of all your projects. Have a basic knowledge in all core concepts and practice DSA 
consistently on platforms like Leetcode. 
Hope this helps, thank you! 
 
Name : Mirudula T G 
Email : mirudulasuresh2805@gmail.com 
