                 Amazon Interview Experience 
 
Amazon is an American multinational technology company focusing on e-
commerce, cloud computing, online advertising, digital streaming, and artificial 
intelligence. It is considered one of the Big Five American technology 
companies, alongside Alphabet (parent company of Google), Apple, Meta 
(parent company of Facebook) and Microsoft. It is a product-based company and 
one of the infamous MAANG companies. 
 
Role Offered: SDE-2m Intern 
Stipend: 1,10,000 INR + 400 USD per month 
Sequence of selection: PPT, Online Assessment, Technical Interview 
 
Online Assessment: 
 
It consisted of two coding questions and a work personality test. 
• Coding Question - 2(A total of 70 minutes) 
• Personality test – No time constraint (But compulsory to complete) 
The question pattern for the online assessment would change every year. This 
year it was only coding round whereas previously they would ask coding 
questions along with some technical questions. So, prepare yourself for both 
coding questions and MCQ’s. 
The online Assessment was conducted in HackerRank platform. 
 
Coding Question 1: 
Given an array of strings which consists of the names of the websites that a user 
visits. The task is to return an array of strings in the order such that the websites 
that are recently visited should appear first and also the array must only contain 
distinct elements. 
 
Sample Testcase: 
Str = [“Amazon”, “Facebook”, “YouTube”, “Twitter”, “Facebook”, “Amazon”, 
“YouTube”] 
Output:  
Ans = [“YouTube”, “Amazon”, “Facebook”, “Twitter”] 
Each got a different set of questions and mostly everything was easy. 
 
Coding Question 2: 
Given a binary string where some positions are marked as x other than 1’s and 
0’s. And the defect rate is the number of positions in which the two consecutive 
characters are different. The task is to minimize the defect rate by filling the 
positions which are marked as x by either 0 or 1 and return the defect rate. 
 
Sample Testcase: 
Str = “0100x011x10xx” 
Output: 4 
Explanation: 
Replace the first x by 0, the second x by 1 and the remaining x’s by 0 so you will 
get “0100001111000” and the number of positions in which the two consecutive 
characters are different are 4. 
 
Then a personality test was conducted which mostly had questions which was 
asked to test our thinking ability and how we approach a problem. I don’t think it 
was included in the marking scheme. 
 
Based on this Online Assessment, 20 people were shortlisted for the next round. 
 
Technical Interview: (1 hour) 
The interview was conducted in Amazon’s chime platform. We were provided 
an amazon chime link for the meeting. 
In the interview, we had an introduction where each of us took a turn introducing 
ourselves. In this interview, you wouldn’t have any HR round to talk about your 
strengths. So, when you introduce yourself, tell them your technical strengths and 
what projects you have worked on. Present yourself in a pleasing way. Then you 
would be asked to share your screen and use LiveCode to code your questions. 
1. The first question was to print all the cousins of a given node in a binary 
tree whose siblings are not prime. 
The question is similar to the below one: 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-cousins-of-a-given-node-in-binary-tree 
Initially I was asked the approach and then asked to code the same from scratch. 
I told them the brute force solution and they asked me to optimize it and then I 
told the optimized answer. Once they were satisfied with my solution they asked 
me to code the same. Then they enquired me about the time and space 
complexities. 
 
2. Find an equilibrium index in an array where the sum of elements to the left 
and right are equal. 
The question is similar to the below one: 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/equilibrium-index-of-an-array 
I was asked the approach first and then asked to code the same. This time they 
asked me to code the brute force solution and then they asked me to optimize the 
brute force approach and then code the optimized approach for this problem. Then 
they enquired me about the time and space complexities. 
With that the interview got over. 
The result was announced the next day and I was one of the two members who 
got the offer. 
 
Tips: 
• Regular 
practice 
is 
important. 
Solve 
questions 
in 
Leetcode, 
GeeksForGeeks and HackerRank. 
• I followed C.O.D.E. resources and takeUForward YouTube channel for 
my preparation on topics like Trees, Graphs, DP and Recursion. 
• If you are not confident with DBMS, OS and OOPS, then prepare for them 
simultaneously because you won’t be having much time between the online 
test and the interview. 
• Aptitude is as important as DSA. At least start learning aptitude two weeks 
before your online test. 
• Even though I was not asked about my projects, in every interview they 
will ask about your projects, and they might ask you about the database 
structure and all. So be prepared to answer any questions related to your 
projects. 
• For any DSA question give them the brute force approach and don’t jump 
to the optimized answer directly. The interviewers are mostly interested in 
your thought process rather than your code. 
In the end, after all the preparation go through the 14 leadership requirements 
from Amazon (just in case, interviewer may check) and STAR approach. 
 
All the very best!!! 
 
Mohanraj M 
CEG CSE’25 
E-Mail: mohanjeeva18@gmail.com 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/mohanraj-m-618902253 
Mobile: +91 6383717142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
