 
 
 
 
 
 
Verizon 
Verizon Communications Inc. is an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate 
and a corporate component of the Dow Jones Industrial Average. The company is based at 1095 
Avenue of the Americas in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, but is incorporated in Delaware. 
Round 1 : Aptitude (Tech + Non-Tech), Verbal, Coding 
This round was an Online Test consisting of aptitude and verbal questions followed by two 
programming questions where both the coding question was medium level. This test was for around 
90 minutes. 
I attempted all aptitude questions because there was no negative marking and solved both coding 
questions, so I got selected for the next level of Interview. 
Round 2 : Technical Interview 
The following questions were asked: 
1. Introduce yourself. (Make it precise which will tell about your education career and your 
personal life) 
2. Programming languages mentioned in the resume and how would you rate yourself? 
3. Explain about the projects mentioned in your resume. 
4. Few technical questions like the algorithms used in the projects were asked. 
The round was for about 30 minutes. At last the interviewer asked me if I had any question for him, 
and I had already prepared two questions to ask the interviewer, please donŌĆÖt miss the opportunity 
when they ask ŌĆ£If you have any question for me?ŌĆØ. Please ask them one or two question and it will 
make a good impression about you. 
(Ask sensible questions) 
As I boldly answered all the questions and presented neatly, I was shortlisted for the next level of 
Interview. 
Round 3 : HR 
The HR round was very casual as compared to other rounds and it was for about 15-20 minutes. 
They are just trying to get to know about yourself more. Some of the questions were: 
1. Introduce yourself. 
2. Why Verizon? 
3. About your leadership qualities. 
4. About your hardships in college as well as school and how did you overcome them. 
For 3 and 4 type of questions try attending them in a positive manner because Interviewers see how 
you are dealing with situations, so you should always stay positive and energetic. 
Again the Interviewer asked me if I had any questions for her and I again used this opportunity. 
Topics to be focussed: 
’ü¼ Data Structures 
’ü¼ Database Management Systems 
’ü¼ Operating Systems 
’ü¼ Algorithms 
Take away: 
’āś Make your basics strong and you will be able to answer any type of questions. 
’āś Make yourself comfortable with the interviewer and ask him to repeat the question if you 
donŌĆÖt understand it rather than providing a wrong answer partially listening to the question. 
’āś Be confident, bold, such that interviewer should feel the positivity in you. 
’āś Though the interviewers may crack some jokes, just give them a smile and leave it and you 
donŌĆÖt rush to crack some other jokes(though they may be friendly). 
’āś The main thing Interviewers check is how you try to attempt, the way you think, so if you 
donŌĆÖt know how to answer a question, think for a while and discuss your ideas with them 
and have an interaction with them. Its not necessary that you should arrive at the answer. 
’āś If you donŌĆÖt know about the topic they ask, donŌĆÖt directly say you donŌĆÖt know, try diverting 
them to the topic you are familiar about, like ŌĆ£I am not so strong in this version but I have 
worked in the lower version of this softwareŌĆØ and bring them to the topic you know. This 
technique heavily impresses the Interviewer. 
Hope this helps. Happy to help you and if you need further clarifications, donŌĆÖt hesitate to reach me. 
Thank you and All the Best. 
Mohammad Arshadh Kader Ali 
Email : arshadhmdk@gmail.com 
LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/in/mohammad-arshadh-kader-ali-ba36551a3/ 
Mobile Number : 8148775755 
