QUANTIPHI ANALYTICS 
Quantiphi is a category defining Applied AI and Machine Learning software and services company 
focused on helping organizations translate the big promise of Big Data & Machine Learning technologies into 
quantifiable business impact. 
Number of rounds : 3 
Details about the rounds : 
Round 1 : Online round - MCQ (data structure, C, C++, OS, Machine Learning) +1 coding question 
Round 2 : Technical round - The technical round was easy with simple coding questions and questions 
based on projects. 
1. Tell me about your projects. (Brief summary of all projects done) 
2. Asked questions on one major project done like how did you build tables (columns and mapping) for 
database for a web-based project. 
3. Difference between foreign key and primary key. Difference between delete, drop and truncate 
2. Coding Questions -  
• Remove array duplicates 
• Count digits in a number (asked time complexity and clear explanation) 
Round 3: HR round  
The HR round was very casual and they were trying to see how we respond to questions, how confident 
we are, our attitude, how our thought process is based on our answers to guesstimates. Some general questions 
were asked. 
1.Tell me about yourself 
2.Out of the roles offered which would you prefer and why? 
3.Guesstimate (On an average in one day, how many pencils will be there in CEG?) 
Topics to be focussed:  
Machine learning (for MCQs), basic coding questions with time complexity, be clear with the projects 
done (should be able to answer questions from projects), for guesstimate think every possible way and have a 
systematic approach and assumptions should be clear and valid. 
Take away:  
            In other companies coding questions on linked lists (find nth node from the end, remove duplicates in 
a list), binary trees (check if the tree is mirror of given binary tree) arrays (find pairs which add up to the given 
sum) and strings were asked. For online coding rounds most of the questions were from arrays and strings. 
OOPs concepts (multiple inheritance-code also, virtual functions) and DBMS related questions were asked 
predominantly in most rounds. Behavioural questions like challenges faced during projects and how did you 
overcome it, questions regarding team work in projects, questions based on skills mentioned in resume were 
also asked. 
                                                                                        
                       Nandhini S  
                                                                                         snandhini262000@gmail.com 
