FIDELITY INVESTMENTS 
About the company: 
 
Fidelity Investments, commonly referred to as Fidelity, earlier as Fidelity Management 
& Research or FMR, is an American multinational financial services corporation based in 
Boston. The company, founded in 1946, is one of the prominent FinTech company which 
offers a wide range of financial services to customers including investors, large scale 
companies, etc… 
Number of rounds: 3 
Roles: Software development and data science internships 
Online Assessment:  
 
The online assessment is conducted on HirePro platform for nearly 1 hour 30 minutes. 
The assessment consists of 4 sections. 
 
1. The first section comprises of English vocabulary aptitude questions. The questions 
are straightforward and easy to answer. 
 
2. The second section comprises of technical aptitude questions where questions were 
like guessing the output, debugging and MCQs related to Operating Systems, OOPS, DBMS 
queries, computer network. The questions were in easy to medium difficulty range. Stick to 
one programming language and get familiar with it (C++, Java or Python).  
 
3. The third section consists of two coding questions. First question is ‘Given an array 
of integers. Find the sum of largest digit in each integer of the array’.  
 
Second question is ‘Given a number with some blanks in it. Find the largest possible 
perfect square number formed by filling all the blanks. E.g.: 6 2 _. The output will be 625’. 
 
Both questions are in easy and medium difficulty. I was able to solve all the testcases 
in both the testcases. Use brute force method in online assessments if you can’t think of 
optimized approach. 
 
4. In fourth section, we have to write just the algorithm for two questions related to 
Dynamic Programming. I finished the first question completely with proper algorithm. But I 
was not able to finish the second question on time. 
 
24 students got shortlisted for the interview round. I was one of them.0 
Note:  
 
Be strong in aptitude and try to clear as many testcases as possible on coding round.  
Time constraint is also a factor in selection process. Don’t forget to submit your answers! 
Technical Interview: 
 
The interview was held at CUIC and on 8:30 AM, we had a small presentation regarding 
the company’s internship drive. Then the interview started. 
 
The interviewer asked me to introduce myself. After that she reviewed my resume and 
gave some comments regarding my schoolings and CGPA. She was very friendly and I was able 
to answer the comments with ease. The she asked me an experience which prompted me to 
learn web development (Since I mentioned it as my foremost skill in my resume). I told her 
about how YouTube intrigued me to learn the behind the scenes of client and server 
communication. Then I explained about the Tech stacks I am specialized in, which is MERN. 
She was satisfied with my answer and asked whether I prefer Angular or React. I explained 
the use cases of both the frameworks and told her my personal opinion as well as a 
generalized opinion.  
 
Then she asked whether am I familiar with DBMS. I said yes. She asked some basic 
concepts like normalization, ACID properties, foreign key. Then she asked me to write a query 
for finding second largest salary in Employee table. I wrote it down and explained it to her. 
She was satisfied and asked what type of DB is used in Facebook, Twitter. Then she asked me 
whether I know the DB used by Google. Since I was familiar with the tech trends, I answered 
the questions correctly. Then she asked me which sorting is better: Merge Sort or Quicksort. 
I told her both has its pros and cons and explained the situation where each sort would be 
better. She was impressed by it.  
 
She then started asking about the projects mentioned in my resume. I was able to 
answer all the questions easily. She then asked how I implemented AI use case in my DBMS 
project. I told her about OpenAI API and how I implemented it. She asked a follow up question 
for it: Difference between AI and ML. I was not able to answer the question correctly. But she 
smiled and explained its difference to me. 
 
Then the interview moved on to CTF and the projects I have done there. I have 
explained about the projects I was working on. She was greatly interested in it and asked 
many questions such as Tech Stacks, Payment portal regarding the project. I was happy to 
answer all the questions with ease. 
 
Then she asked me some fun questions to lighten the mood. She asked me about my 
hobbies, which book genre I was interested in, which book character I preferred the most and 
she asked me whether I can talk in Hindi. I told her I can only write and read in Hindi. She 
smiled and asked me whether I have any questions. I asked her about the Tech Stacks used in 
Fidelity and the work culture in the company  
 
Overall, the interview went for 40 minutes. Keep the interviewer engaged and don’t 
give one-line answers. Explain every answer in detail and be honest in your resume. 
 
Within 15 minutes, I got selected for HR round. 
HR Round: 
 
The interviewer asked about myself. She then asked me some typical questions like: 
Why engineering, Why CEG. Then she asked why did I choose Fidelity. Always do a little 
research about the company before interview and include facts about the company subtly 
during HR interview.  
 
She then asked me whether I have worked in teams. I told her about CTF club and the 
projects I have worked on. She then asked about the conflicts I have faced in a team, 
drawbacks I have faced in a team, what I did to overcome those setbacks.  
 
She then asked me whether I have any questions. I asked her about the working 
conditions for interns after they received PPO and working preference for interns (On site or 
WFH). With that interview finished. It lasted for about 20 minutes. Keep the interview as a 
conversation and don’t hesitate to ask questions politely when you want. 
 
In the end, 6 students got internship. I was happy to be one of them.  
 
 
Key Points to note: 
• Solve competitive questions from Leetcode, Hackerrank, CodeChef, etc… 
• Be strong in DSA, DBMS, OS, OOPS. 
• Always mention projects in your resume and be strong in the tech stack you are using. 
• Be honest in your resume. 
• Keep the interview engaging. 
 
 
ALL THE BEST 
 
 
Contact: 
Narendran G 
Email: narensakthiit@gmail.com 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/narendran-g 
