APPIAN INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
ROLE : Software Engineer Intern 
The interview process consisted of four rounds. 
 
Online Coding Round: 
Time limit : 1:15 hrs 
The Online Test consisted of 3 coding questions: 
1. Insert Interval - Leetcode 
2. Find first and last position of element in sorted array - Leetcode 
3. Find missing and repeating - GeeksForGeeks 
These problems were asked with slight variations in the problem statement. 
 
Technical Round – 1: 
Time : about 1 hr 
The round started with a brief introduction about myself. He asked in detail about everything I mentioned in 
my resume. He also asked in detail about the projects that I worked on and hackathons I participated in. 
 
Related to my project and Web Development: 
1. Challenges I faced during my project 
2. Learnings during the course of the project 
3. How JWT based authentication works? 
4. What happens if someone between the server and client steals/modifies the token(MITM)? 
5. How to prevent token theft in JWT authentication? 
6. Have I deployed my project and how? 
7. More things about Docker 
8. How do you test your API endpoints? 
 
Related to DSA: 
He asked the coding language I was comfortable with and I was asked to write pseudocode in paper 
1. Given a set of scheduled meetings(start time, end time), find if the meetings overlap or not? 
2. Minimum number of rooms to accommodate all meetings 
3. Given an integer n, can n meetings be conducted or not? 
 
Related to DBMS: 
1. Given a scenario for an e-learning platform , how to design a appropriate database schema? 
2. Design a db schema for student and parent details in an educational institution. 
3. Write a SQL query to find the siblings in the above schema 
4. Some general db questions related to designing db schema. 
 
He asked what I have been learning new in the recent. He asked if I have any questions. He explained all my 
doubts in detail and gave suggestions for me. He told a lot about working at Appian and how it would look 
like for me to work at Appian. 
 
Technical Round – 2: 
Time : 15 min 
For me, the interviewer did not ask any technical questions. He asked some general questions and a few 
questions related to my resume. 
1. Brief introduction about myself 
2. What do you know about Appian? 
3. Why just Appian and not other companies? 
4. Higher education? 
I asked him some questions about Appian and that’s it. 
 
Managerial Round: 
Time : 10 min 
He asked about things I mentioned in my resume. He enquired much about my academic performance and 
posted some general questions. I asked him some questions from my side and that’s it. 
 
Tips: 
• Be confident. 
• It’s fine to boast about yourself - that’s what they expect.  
• Practice regularly and that works. 
Hope this helps :) 
 
Nethra B 
Feel free to reach out to me!! 
LinkedIn : Nethra-Balan - LinkedIn  
 
 
 
