BARCLAYS INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
 
 
  FOR INTERNSHIP 
1. PERUMALL RISHI P 
2023503551 
INTRODUCTION : 
 
 
Barclays first sent a gform for the registration of candidates for 
their online exams. And out of more than 400 students applied they shortlisted 
merely 180 students for online assessment based on their cgpa(8.3 and above). 
As at that time I had a cgpa of around 8.5 I was shortlisted for the OA which 
had 20 mcq’s(technical mainly output based) and 5 SQL queries(difficulty varies 
from 3 questions easy and 2 questions medium) main constrain in this OA is 
time management as all of these should be completed within 45 minutes. And 
after the OA after a week they sent the shortlisted list for the next round in 
which they kept on adding names at the end and the final shortlisted list 
contained about 47 candidates(Even though some of the candidates attended 
only 24 questions out of 25 and cannot answer the last SQL also got shortlisted 
as 47 is a large amount in 180 candidates). I have answered all the 25 questions 
and 5 SQL queries passed all the test cases so I am somewhat sure that I would 
go into the next round and fortunately I was shortlisted. 
ROUND-1(TECHNICAL ROUND) : 
 
Barclays conducted 2 rounds of interview out of which the first round is 
the technical round. There were around 10 panels for the interview and each 
panel consisted a single interviewer. Out of those 10 panels 4 panels were 
difficult 3 panels were normal and 3 panels were very easy like they asked HR-
Level questions at the technical round. As always my luck I went into one 
among the 4 difficult panels and I was listed as the third candidate to attend 
the interview at my panel. The thing is that when I attended for Appian 
interview you can communicate with others who have completed their 
interview to get their insights but Barclays strict doesn’t allow this and they 
send all the completed candidates to a different area. So we were blank about 
what is happening in the interview room but I read my seniors interview 
experience as they all said it is the easiest interview process they ever attended 
so I am confident that it would be simple, but hold on folks it is clearly the 
opposite that went for my panel. After the previous candidate before me 
completed his interview I was called next and I went in and the first thing he 
did his read my resume thoroughly pin-pointing at critical tech skills. I was 
asked to introduce about myself as usual the interviewers don’t listen to your 
intro instead at that time they would read what and all you have added in your 
resume and google it to ask potential questions from it. So after this he asked 
about my strengths and skills I explained it to him. And he directly went onto 
something that I haven’t even specified in my resume ‘matplotlib’. He given me 
a set of data like it is the shopping list of region specific customers in certain 
months and he wanted me to plot that in any way I know using any language. 
So I went on with “charts.io” package from node js and explained how would I 
pull the data from api’s and plot it and I also explained about matplotlib in 
python and told him that I was never used to visualization in python and I 
would go with node js. He was happy with my answer and moved on to the 
next question where he saw I used the word JWT Authentication in my project 
and asked me how does it works. I explained the concept behind it and he 
went further deeper and asked how does the passwords are getting hashed 
and I explained him the usage of bcrypt he was still not happy and said some 
certain protocol numbers and asked me which protocol I was using I had no 
answer for those specific protocols and I said only I know the tool to hash and I 
am currently reading its protocols. Then he moved on to cryptography and 
asked how do you encode your data and how would you retrieve the data at 
the other end without dampening of data. I told him about the concepts of 
middleware and basic cryptography techniques to mask the data which  
remembered when studying computational thinking in first semester. Then he 
asked how would you make your product available for every servers. I 
explained him the process of horizontal scaling and he was fine with it. Then he 
moved onto dbms and he wrote about 4 tables and asked me to retrieve 
certain data from the tables. It involved using groupby, join, subquery and 
having clause finally sorted by using order by clause. After that he asked me 
about row indexing methods that I know. I explained him about clustered and 
non-cluster indexing. Then he again wrote a table and asked me to manipulate 
the table based on the data being inserted and I asked him whether I can 
proceed with procedure he green flagged me and I wrote a PL/SQL procedure 
which generally modifies a date when the region column is changed you can do 
it by using cursors in procedures. Then he moved on to dsa and asked me 
whether I know doubly linked list. I said yes and he asked me to write the code 
for deletion in the doubly linked list at a specific node. I wrote a pseudocode 
and diagrammatically explained him what is happening. Then he moved on to 
networks and I told him that we are currently pursuing networks and OS in this 
semester but it doesn’t stop him a from asking questions. He asked me to 
explain about the protocols I know. I explained him TCP and UDP and he asked 
a follow up question of explain the seven segments in the networks layer. At 
that time I was able to remember only 4 and I explained it to him he said that 
was fine. Then he moved onto OS and he gave me ABC.dat file and asked me to 
write a command that remove all the junk character from the file(characters 
other than alphabets) from the file and store it in a new file. At that time, I only 
know about grep, sed and awk I managed to write a simple program in awk 
that does this work. Then he asked about cybersecurity while working in bank 
kind of systems how would you ensure security. He asked me to explain about 
the different types of ai’s that I know. I explained him about ai, gen ai, open ai, 
agentic ai and so on. He followed up with give examples for each of those. Then 
he asked me whether I have knowledge on github as I didn’t host any project in 
github he asked the reasons for it. After he asked me about various github 
commands like clone, merge, commit, pull, fork and after I explained he then 
asked me whether I know about BOLT AI . This is the point where I said I 
completely have no clue. Then he stopped the interview(in between I think he 
is waiting for this word I don’t know in the complete interview). He asked me 
whether I have any questions for him. I asked him about the tech stacks I would 
work at Barclays. After one hour of long gruelling interview it came to an end 
and he said “it has been nice talking to you man” but definitely not the same 
from me. I came out with a sigh of relief and a bit of confidence that I have 
done reasonably well. 
KEY POINTS : 
 Be well prepared with dbms concepts and sql querying (Oracle is 
preferable). 
 Go through commonly asked dsa questions of Barclays. 
 Know a little bit about LLD(Low Level Design) and revise OOPs concept 
thoroughly. 
 And last but not the least you should have some luck by your hand as 
only the 4 panels out of 10 panels the interview was tough the other 
guys easily escaped with simple dsa and sql querying and the interview 
went for only 20 to 25 minutes for some candidates. Only in your bad 
day you will get on to me like I attended a one hour long interview. 
 
ROUND – 2 (Technical + HR) : 
 
After the first round was completed for all the candidates they 
shortlisted 25 students out of the 47 initially qualified students. I was fortunate 
to be one among them. And I noticed that everyone from my panel was 
eliminated except me. Then I came to realize they have relatively selected 
candidates from every panel. When asked what about the second round they 
said it will be project deep dives and situation based hr questions. In the 
second round I was announced as the first candidate and without a breathing 
time they asked me to get into the room. This was so quick such that I actually 
forgot my intro and somehow managed when he asked tell me about yourself. 
Then he told me that we will divide it as 50 to 50 technical and hr divided. He 
was the sweetest person I have ever talked in 5 rounds of interview(3 in Appian 
and 2 in Barclays, don’t ask me about Appian they told me silliest of reasons to 
reject me after going through all the 3 rounds). The interviewer asked shall we 
proceed with the tech stacks you know. I said yes and he asked me some basic 
questions about what is node js, why react, for backend development do you 
use node js or react and why, why react is not suitable for backend 
development. He asked me about the best feature I like using node js. I 
answered him npm packet manager. He asked me why and what are the things 
you have done using npm. I explained him about creating live servers and all. 
Then he asked how components are transferred from one state another state 
for example he draw a 3-tier client server architecture and asked to explain me 
what is going behind the abstraction and what are the tools you know used for 
this purpose. I explained the concepts of POSTMAN and REST api’s and detailed 
him about CRUD operations. I also explained him about middleware and 
horizontal scaling. Then he moved on to MONGO DB and asked questions like 
why you prefer mongo db, is mongo db indexed or not indexed, if not indexed 
then give me the command that makes it indexed according to user, how do 
you create a collection, what is a document in mongo db, mongo db better 
than RDBMS. Then he dived on to some dbms questions. Why normalization 
and denormalization, is cartesian product good or bad, if bad what is the 
alternative, give real life examples of worst cases of cartesian product, what are 
the aggregate functions I know, explain me about some window functions, 
when to use surrogate key, is surrogate key good or bad, types of indexing 
methods, difference between rank and dense rank, when will you go for rank in 
real life scenarios, how to optimize queries, drawbacks of RDBMS. Then he 
went on to OOPs concepts where he asked questions which were never topic 
specific he would tell some scenarios and I want to identify which phenomenon 
of OOP here is taking place. For example, he asked me a class just has some 
declarations and no variables and asked me what is the reason for creating this 
pseudo class. The answer is runtime polymorphism as the methods will be 
overridden in the child classes like this no question was specific and it was 
seriously testing your knowledge of OOPs in real life scenarios. Then he asked 
me about what is the favorite feature you like in c++, I explained him about 
friend classes. And he jokingly asked me whether I would use this while 
working in Barclays company. I strictly said no as Barclays contains sensitive 
information of persons in their database. He was happy with this much 
questions for technical purpose and with a smile he said I have grilled you 
enough for a internship purpose and we can move on to scenario based 
question. By this time snacks arrived and we took a bite and continued the 
interview(in between he was very heartious to share it with me). He asked you 
have written code for 6 months for a project and one of your friendly has 
deleted the code accidentally or deliberately that you don’t know and you have 
presentation tomorrow and your talent exposure chance is based on this what 
will you do. I answered this in a more saving my friend nature way but he 
reminded me that when a boat is going to sink you have to save yourself first 
before lending your hand to others. Then he asked me about situations if you 
have mis-communication between your team and it is your fault and how 
would you resolve it. The he asked me to explain a situation where I have 
followed any one of the Barclays principle(RISES). I explained him about a story 
that tells about integrity. And that’s time it has already been nearly an hour he 
asked me whether I have any questions for him. And winded up the interview 
by saying looking forward to see you. That’s when I got a hope I would get 
selected and it happened fortunately so. 
KEY POINTS : 
 The second round mostly contains project deep dives so study 
thoroughly about your projects and the things you have used in your 
project. 
 They look for confidence in hr round so be confident about your answer 
as everyone have different answers no answer is correct it’s all about 
delivering your thoughts. 
 Finally try something out of the box to impress the interviewer by 
including many real life scenarios as he is the one to select you for the 
intern. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALL THE BEST 
 
