 
WELLS FARGO INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
(INTERNSHIP) 
 
  
 
 
 
About the company:  
Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational 
financial services company with a significant global 
presence. The company operates in 35 countries and 
serves over 70 million customers worldwide. Today, 
Wells Fargo India operates in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, and 
Chennai. It is considered one of the "Big Four Banks" in 
the United States, alongside JPMorgan Chase, Bank of 
America, 
and 
Citigroup.  
 
 
 ONLINE TEST : 
This round happened to be in the Aspiring Minds (SHL) platform. The round 
consisted of 3 sections namely verbal aptitude, business aptitude and coding. Both 
aptitude sections had MCQs which had to be answered compulsorily and free 
navigation was prohibited. 
  
APTITUDE PART: 
 
Verbal Aptitude: Consists of 12 MCQs to be solved in 15 minutes. They can be 
on vocabulary (guessing the meaning of the word as per the use in the sentence), 
comprehension, and some basic grammar corrections. It can be practised from 
sample questions given on the SHL website or other websites with questions of a 
similar pattern.  
 
Business Aptitude: Consists of 15 MCQs to be solved in 20 minutes. Completely 
observation-based and logic-based. Basic mathematics and understanding of profit-
loss using pie charts and bar graphs is sufficient to answer completely.Application 
of Venn Diagrams is also Necessary. 
 
 
CODING PART:TWO SECTIONS 
Section 1: 
 
It consisted of only one question and Java is the only available language.The 
Given Time is 60 Minutes. 
Question: A well is Dug in Africa which supplies water to N towns.The Length of 
the Pipes between the Towns is given by a 2D Matrix where the aij represents the 
Pipe Length  from ith town to jth town in Africa.The well should be connected to all 
the N towns.Find the minimum possible pipe length to connect all the N towns. 
Solution: Construct a Minimum Spanning Tree and return the Cost(Pipe Length) 
of the tree. 
 
Section 2: 
 
It consisted of two questions and many programming languages are 
supported. Total Time Limit is 45 minutes for this Section. Navigation between 
these two questions are allowed. 
Question 1: A Refrigeration company has N cold storage units that preserve orders 
of the Customers. Given an array of size N denoting the temperature of the order 
(some material) to be preserved in N cold storage units. Return the No. of orders 
that needs to be placed in negative temperatures. 
Solution: Count the no. of Negative Numbers in the array and return it. 
 
Question 2: Given a String and a substring , find the No. of occurrences of the 
substring in the string. Occurrences are case insensitive. 
Eg: String: Todd is a toddler. 
Substring: Todd 
Here no. of occurrences is 2. (Case insensitive) 
39 Candidates were shortlisted based on the Online round performance and have 
been called for the Interview. 
 
 
Interview: 
 
It consisted of three rounds. Technical, Technical cum behavioural and HR 
rounds. 
 
Round 1:  
 
This round was Virtual and went on upto 40-45 minutes. I attended in a 
room in CUIC with my Laptop. I gave a brief Intro of myself. Then Interviewer 
asked me whether I knew Python. I replied that I knew only basics. He asked me to 
write any code in python. He was not satisfied with my code. So I requested him to 
use any other language. Then I wrote Quicksort algorithm code in notepad. Before 
finishing up the code, he interrupted me and told me to type the input and the 
expected output. Next he asked me to give the code structure of Java. Later each 
and every questions revolved around my resume. He asked about React and its 
applications. No questions related to my projects were asked. At the end, He was 
open to questions and told me to prepare for the next set of teams. 
 
Round 2 and 3 were Physical. 
 
Round 2:  
 
I gave a brief Intro. The interviewer asked questions related to DBMS. Only 
Basic Questions like 
 What is Database Management Systems? 
 Types of DBMS 
 How data are stored? 
 What is a table?How are data stored in Rows and Columns? 
 Advantages of DBMS 
All these questions are asked from my answers of the previous ones. When I 
mentioned Efficient Data Retrieval for advantages, he asked How efficiency is 
obtained for which I said about Indexing. Later he asked few questions about 
indexing. This round lasted for 10 to 15 minutes. 
 
Round 3(HR Round): 
 
Only 11 candidates were shortlisted for the HR Round.HR round was very 
easy and lasted for 8 minutes. I was the last Candidate on that day. She gone 
through my Resume. She asked about the level of Difficulty I face being a HR 
Deputy Director in Leo Club of CEG. I mentioned my interests in Cybersecurity in 
my Resume. She asked how I got an interest in that domain. Then she asked me 
about one of the projects in my resume. I gave non-technical aspects of the project 
(since it was HR round). At the end, when she was open to questions, I asked why 
she chose Wells Fargo. She told me a big story which lasted more than my 
interview. 
 
10 students were selected out of 11 who completed all the Rounds for the 
Internship. I am very happy to be one of them. 
 
  TIPS: 
 Practice Leetcode questions daily. 
 For Wells Fargo, Aptitude has more Weightage and is the Tie-
Breaker. 
 Be Honest to your Resume. Interviews will revolve around your 
resume. 
 Add atleast two Projects in your resume. 
 Mention your achievements and strong area when you give brief 
Intro. Actually this helps you drive your Interview. 
 Whether You know the answer or not ,be confident and try to 
answer. 
ALL THE BEST!!! 
Pirem Balaji C 
CEG CSE’27 
Contact No: 7708216539 
LinkedIn: http://www.linkedin.com/in/pirem-balaji-439a84281  
