NATWEST FTE INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE
ABOUT THE COMPANY
National Westminster Bank, commonly known as NatWest, is a major retail and
commercial bank in the United Kingdom based in London, England. It was
established in 1968 by the merger of National Provincial Bank and Westminster
Bank.
ONLINE TEST
The online test was conducted on Mettl which consisted of 6 sections which had to
be solved in a duration of 2hr. Overall there were 50 MCQs and 3 coding
questions.
Section 1: There were 2 coding questions in this section
●Slight Variation of Knapsack
●Graph question
Section 2: This section was the algorithmic section. It consisted of one question
●Coin Change :https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change/
Section 3: This section consisted of 10 MCQs based on Quantitative aptitude. The
questions were easy to medium and were based on simple and compound interest,
profit and loss, probability, permutations, mixtures, and number systems.
Section 4: This section consisted of 10 MCQs based on Logical Reasoning. The
questions were based on figures, directions, calendars, blood relations, directions,
clocks, etc.
Section 5: This section consisted of 10 MCQs based on Verbal Aptitude. The
questions were easy and consisted of fill in the blanks with the appropriate word,
synonyms, antonyms, error detection, paragraph based questions.
Section 6: This section consisted of 20 MCQs based on Technical aptitude. The
questions were from all technical subjects including OS, DBMS, Data structures,
time complexity, C/Java output based.
47 candidates including me were shortlisted for the next round.
Technical + Competency based interview (Virtual)
This was a technical round conducted on Zoom meetings, the panel consisted of 2
interviewers. Interview duration was about 25 - 30 min.
Interview was divided into three parts
About myself
Questions Asked
1. Tell me about yourself
2. Family background
3. About Schooling, hobbies and interests
Technical questions
Questions Asked
1. Explain any one project which you have worked on.
I explained a DBMS project
How do we handle going to different webpages handled in the project
How is the front-end connected to database
2. Basics of OS
Different types of OS
3. Basics of DBMS
Purpose of DBMS
List Different Constraints and explain , python vs SQL, Different Schemas
available etc
4. Basics of CN
Different Layers of OSI model
List all the Different Topologies and explain and what is the topology used
in internet
List some Protocols and explain
5. Basic of ML - supervised vs Unsupervised, overfitting and underfitting
6. Some basic unix commands
Command to sort the files in a directory and display top 10.
Scenario based/ HR questions
1. What is your strength ?
2. What is your Weakness ?
3. Where do you see yourself in 5 years
4. Why do you want to join Natwest ?
5. Scenario
You are the team lead and team consists of 4 members and one person take a
long leave and deadlines approaching for a project
What will you do ?
Finally 21 were shortlisted.
Resources
DSA RESOURCES
ALL THE BEST!
Pooja S (CSE 2019 - 2023)
Feel free to reach out to me at:
https://www.linkedin.com/in/pooja-sukumar-0b4620222/
