 
 
 
 
 
CITICORP 
 
First Round (Online Test): The test was conducted on The AMCAT platform which had 4 
sections with a time limit of 2 hrs. 
1. Quantitative aptitude: 14 questions  
2. Logical Reasoning: 12 questions 
3. Technical MCQ: 25 questions  
4. Coding section: 2 questions 
  
The first section tests the student’s aptitude skills which 
can be solved easily with basic math concepts. The logical 
reasoning section has questions based on relations, syllogisms 
etc. The technical section has questions from OOPS, DBMS, 
time complexities of different algorithms, and Data Structures. 
It is very important to manage your time efficiently as you are 
not allowed to change answers or move back to the previous 
questions once submitted. 
Coding Questions: 
1. Bit Manipulation(Gray code) 
2. Backtracking(Rat and cheese problem) 
Second Round (Technical Interview): This interview took place on the Aspiring Minds 
platform. To break the ice, the panel members asked for my introduction and my passion for 
technology. I was posed questions regarding the projects I had mentioned in my resume. 
Later I was tested on the basics of C++, OS and DBMS. They asked some basic questions 
like fundamental differences between C, C++, and JAVA, multi threading, static and 
dynamic binding, macros, and the advantages of using OOPS, differences between applets 
and servlets. Then they went on to put me in different hypothetical situations and asked me 
what my actions would be in such circumstances. I was then asked about my short and long 
term goals. To conclude, the panelists asked me about my perception of Citicorp. My 
suggestion for the candidates would be to answer all the questions confidently in a precise 
manner. Keep your chin up and don't forget to smile!! 
Third Round (HR Interview): This interview happened over a phone call in which I was 
asked the following questions. 
1. Introduction 
2. What are your strengths and weaknesses. ? 
3. Tell me about your summer internship. 
4. Why do you want to join Citi? 
5. How many interviews were you selected for before Citi and why didn’t those 
companies select you? 
6. What are your biggest accomplishments? 
Take away: Practice coding and other technical concepts thoroughly from different sources 
like GeeksforGeeks, LeetCode, Hackerrank etc. Start right from basics and build on step by 
step. Seek advice from your parents, professors, seniors and other peers. Do not take 
rejections to your heart. Instead work on both your strengths and weaknesses equally to get 
placed in your dream company with the right motivation, preparation and guidance. 
Hope this helps. 
All the Best. 
Pradhakshya JD 
pradhakshyajd@gmail.com 
9677083323 
 
 
