RAMCO SYSTEMS INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
Ramco Systems Limited is an Indian multinational enterprise software 
product and platform provider disrupting the market with its multi-tenant 
cloud and mobile-based enterprise solutions in Global Payroll, ERP, and 
M&E MRO for Aviation. Founded in 1997, it is a part of Ramco Group, and 
is headquartered in Chennai, Tamil Nadu. 
 
Sequence of Selection: 
1. Online Test 
2. Pen and paper assessment  
3. Technical Interview – 1 
4. Technical Interview – 2 
 
1. Online Test: 
 
The online assessment was conducted on the DoSelect platform with 
total duration of 1hr 15 mins. Total number of questions are 26 in which first 
2 were coding questions: 
i. 
Array Rearrangement: Give a sorted array you need to rearrange 
a sorted array so that elements alternate between the maximum and 
minimum values. 
 
o/p: [max, min, second max, second min, ….] 
 
ii. 
In a village with N houses connected by N-1 roads, for each house 
find how far away its farthest friend could live. 
These questions are necessarily need to be done in ‘C’ Language only. 
Remaining 24 questions are Multiple choice from the topics like basic 
understanding of C Language, Operating system, DBMS, Linux commands. 
 
From online test, 73 candidates were selected for the pen and paper 
assessment the next day at CUIC. 
 
2. Pen and Paper Assessment:  
 
In this round, all the candidates were given a question papers 
consisting of 3 coding questions. We can write codes in our preferrable 
language within 1 ½ hrs time limit. The 3 coding questions asked (from 
LEETCODE) are: 
a) Longest Harmonious Subsequence. 
b) Longest Substring Without Repeating Characters. 
c) Find Duplicate Subtrees. 
 
From this round, 42 candidates were selected for the 1st level of 
Technical Interview. 
 
3. Technical Interview – 1: 
 
These are the following questions asked to me after giving self-
introduction: 
 
a) Puzzle: Find the fastest 3 horses. 
b) DSA: 
• Sort the given unsorted linked list without manipulating 
the data and without creating new linked list. 
• What is meant by Time complexity. 
• What is the major difference between malloc and calloc? 
c) OOPS: 
• What are the 4 pillars of OOPS? 
• What is operator overloading? 
• Why Java cannot inherit multiple class? What problem 
arises when try to inherit? 
• What is constructor overriding? (there is no such thing, 
they simply tested) 
• What is Destructor? Whether it is present in java? How 
can we use it in java? 
• Why OOPs is significant from the procedural languages 
like C? 
d) DBMS: 
• Types of commands in SQL (DDL, DML,…) and give 
examples. 
• Difference between DELETE, TRUNCATE, DROP 
commands. 
• What is Transaction? What is meant by RAID? 
• ACID property 
• What is Normalization? What are the Normal Forms? 
• What is Data redundancy? 
• What is Denormalization? 
• Why JDBC is used? (Based on my project) 
 
e) OS: 
• What is Deadlock? 
• Why Deadlock occurs? What are the necessary 
conditions? 
• How Deadlock can be prevented? 
• What is the difference between concurrent process and 
parallel process? 
• What is semaphore? What are the types of Semaphores? 
• What are the functions of Semaphore? 
 
From this round, 19 candidates were shortlisted for the next round of 
Technical Interview. 
 
4. Technical Interview – 2: 
 
Firstly, the interviewer asked me about the Hostel Management 
project I have done in Java using JDBC, MySQL, Java swing. He 
asked about my contribution. He then, asked me the schema of the 
database in this project. 
 
Asked about what is meant by indexing? And if you need to 
implement indexing into your table, which index you would prefer 
and why?? 
 
DSA: 1) Detect loop in the linked list. 
 
2) Return the start node of the loop in the linked list. 
 
3) Need to find the output and time complexity of the below 
given code: 
 
 
 
void func(n, m){ 
 
 
if(m<=0) return; 
 
 
if(m > n) return; 
 
 
print(m); 
 
 
func(n, 3 * m); 
 
 
print(m); 
} 
 
func(2000, 8); 
 
 
 
 
 
After this final round, 10 candidates received offers. 
 
 
For the future candidates, I would suggest to strong well enough in core 
fundamentals, DSA, and the projects that you done. You should be aware of 
each and every word in your resume and ready to explain your resume. Be 
confident about you and believe in you. 
Wishing you all the best!! 
 
PRAJIN K S, 
CEG, CSE’26, 
e-mail: prajinsivaselvi@gmail.com 
Mobile: 6369770924. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
