VISA (Internship) 
About the company: 
 
VISA Inc. is an American multinational financial services company which is often 
misapprehended as a bank/credit card company. The headquarters is situated in Foster City, California. 
It facilitates money transfers between bank accounts through VISA-branded credit, debit and pre-paid 
cards. 
 
There were two rounds of selection for the internship. The first round was based on coding 
questions and the second was technical + HR based. 
Coding Round: 
The coding round consisted of two coding questions to be completed within 1 hour. The questions were 
of easy-moderate difficulty. 
The questions were 
i) Slightly modified version of finding number of nodes in every connected component. 
ii) Finding number of triplets whose sum is less than given threshold 
Link: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-triplets-with-sum-smaller-that-a-given-value/ 
Tips: 
i)  Practice coding problems from websites like Geeksforgeeks, Leetcode and Hackerrank.  
ii) Try to get acquainted with problems whose statement is lengthy. This could save some 
valuable time as it can be considered as an important factor in shortlisting candidates 
from the coding round. 
Technical + HR round: 
The questions asked were: 
i) Explain about where can you use circular-linked lists over doubly-linked lists. 
ii) AVL tree and its association with BSTs. 
iii) Find the largest BST subtree of a binary tree. 
Link: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-the-largest-subtree-in-a-tree-that-is-also-a-bst/ 
iv) Modified version of the problem nearest city 
Link: https://leetcode.com/discuss/interview-question/949904/amazon-oa2-nearest-city 
v) Based on MySQL syntax. 
vi) Brief explanation about projects mentioned in my resume. 
vii) Leadership qualities you possess. 
Tips: 
i) Answer each question boldly, don’t hesitate for anything, speak with confidence.  
ii) Don’t worry if you can’t find the best possible solution for coding questions. The interviewer 
values your way of approach and how composed you are more than anything else. 
He/She will also provide you subtle hints so that you can arrive at the solution. 
iii) Don’t forget to perform a background check on the company before the interview. Try to 
include facts/stats about the company gently into your conservation.  
iv) Don’t lie in resume/interview. Lying creates an ever-lasting bad impression. 
v) Refer interview experience articles from GFG.  
vi) Make sure you revise relevant concepts from core subjects. Last minute notes in GFG can 
prove to be useful. 
Take away: 
i) Practice frequently on coding platforms. 
ii) Completely learn at least one programming language. 
iii) Revise OOPS, OS and DBMS concepts time-to-time. 
iv) Maintain your confidence while speaking with the interviewer. 
Hope this helps 
All the best!! 
 
Pramodh V 
pramodhvenkatraman@gmail.com 
