Wells Fargo (Internship)
About the company:
Wells Fargo is an American Bank and a multinational financial services company.
Wells Fargo India & Philippines was established to support business lines and staff functions
in Technology, Business Operations, Automation, Analytics, etc across the company. Today,
Wells Fargo India operates in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, and Chennai.
The job description mentioned responsibilities of designing, developing and testing
software engineering solutions at scale while maintaining reusable and reliable code and
ensuring performance.
My interview experience:-
Round 1:- Aptitude + Coding
This round happened in the Aspiring Minds (SHL) platform. The round consisted of 3
sections namely verbal aptitude, business aptitude and coding. Both aptitude sections had
MCQs which had to be answered compulsorily and free navigation was prohibited.
Verbal aptitude was just selecting the best answer based on reading comprehension
and general understanding of English grammar.
Business Aptitude had MCQs based on stocks and economics, just to check your
logical decision making skills. Basic mathematics and understanding of profit - loss is
sufficient to answer fully.
The Coding round had 2 questions of moderate difficulty, but both had to be coded
from scratch (no driver code or function declaration was given).
●
Given a matrix with 3 vertices of a parallelogram, find the 4th vertex that will be inside
the matrix.
This was an adaptation of the program:- Missing Point of a Parallelogram | Practice |
GeeksforGeeks. I was able to get 17/19 test cases passed for the question.
●
Given the dimensions of a matrix (m,n) and a starting value ‘s’, find the product of the
matrix with the transpose of itself formed when values of the matrix increase from s.
ie, if m=4,n=3,s=2, the matrix is:-
2   3   4
5   6   7
8   9   10
11 12 13
I was able to get all test cases passed for the question.
A total of 30 students got selected to the next round.
Tips for coding round:-
●
Keep practicing questions in GeeksForGeeks and LeetCode.
●
Get acquainted with problem statements that are lengthy.
●
Be prepared to write full code, as usually many are prepared only to code the
function.
●
Keep a calm head while attending the questions, as in many cases it is sufficient to
get a few test cases right if the question is difficult.
●
Try to answer as many aptitude questions as possible.
Round 2:- Technical Interview (40 mins)
The interview started with the usual “Tell me about yourself” and “Why do you want to
intern at Wells Fargo?”. Then the interviewer asked me about my general knowledge on
Finance, Interest rates, Mutual Funds, etc. (I used to follow some of them and hence was
able to answer satisfactorily).
Then he tested my understanding of the difference between C and C++ and the basic
concepts of OOPS. Then I was asked to explain one of my projects and there were few
questions asked based on that. Next we went to pair coding where I had to open my IDE and
write the basic algorithm for these questions while sharing the screen. The questions
themselves were easy, like:-
●
Find the missing number in an unsorted array of 1-n numbers, if the array contains
n-1 numbers.
●
Find the missing number in an unsorted array of 1-n numbers, if the array contains n
numbers with 1 number repeating twice.
●
Find the set of repeating elements in an array.
There were a few other very basic coding questions which I only had to explain the
approach.
Overall the interview went very well and I got selected for the next round.
Round 3:- Tech + Managerial Interview (40 mins)
This interview started with a “Tell me something about yourself not on your resume”.
The interviewer continued asking questions like “Why CSE?”, my hobbies, interests, my
contributions to society using Computer Science, etc. Here again I was asked to explain my
role in one of my projects.
Then I was given 2 technical questions, which were to test my thinking and reasoning
capabilities.
●
Given a set of data of Hotel names with their corresponding menu items and food
cuisine which the hotel belongs to, what would be the data structure used to store the
given information and algorithm used to search a hotel by their menu items / cuisine.
Once I gave a satisfactory answer, I was asked what I would do if the user also
wanted to search on the basis of hotel name.
●
If there is a rectangular parking shed with 50 parking spaces on each of the longer
parallel sides, and there are 4 entrances each at the corner of the rectangle, I was
asked to write an algorithm to return the list of nearest free parking space given
which entrance your car is in.
I asked a few questions regarding what is expected from an intern at Wells Fargo and the
way projects are assigned to interns. A few of my friends got a call from the HR for another
round of interview, but I didn’t get the call. Overall 12 people were selected for the internship.
Key takeaways from my interview experiences:-
●
Be confident while you speak, and try to express your thought process behind
whatever you say as the interviewers do help us when we get stuck on something.
●
Be very clear of what you put on your resume, make sure that you would be able to
explain extensively the projects that you have done.
●
Do a background research on what the company is all about.
●
Be prepared for both concept and application oriented questions from OS, DSA,
DBMS and OOPS.
Hope this helps 😀😇
All the best 👍
Pranava Raman BMS,
B.E. (CSE) ‘23 batch.
📞+91 94435 01317
https://www.linkedin.com/in/pranava-raman-bms/
