Athena Health Interview Experience 
 
Name: Praveen RS 
Department: Computer Science and Engineering 
 
About the Company  
 
 
Athenahealth is a private American company that provides network-enabled 
services for healthcare and point-of-care mobile apps in the United States. 
athenahealth partners with healthcare organizations across the care continuum to 
drive clinical and financial results. The company has expert teams which build 
modern technology on an open, connected ecosystem, yielding insights that make a 
difference for the customers and their patients. Athena brings cloud-based web and 
mobile software to the healthcare industry to build and information backbone with 
the power to transform health delivery. 
 
Athenahealth’s vision is to create a thriving ecosystem that delivers 
accessible, high-quality, and sustainable healthcare for all, and the customers are 
pursuing this through their medical record, revenue cycle, patient engagement, and 
care coordination service offerings. 
 
Job Locations (India): Chennai, Bangalore and Pune 
Job Position: Associate Member Technical Staff 
 
Job Role(description): 
 
Entry-level and near entry-level Software Engineer working in the R&D teams. 
Engineers at athenahealth work on a variety of technical problems across products 
and platform teams. 
 
 
 
Interview Process 2021 (Virtual) 
 
1. Online HackerRank Test (1 hr 30 mins): 
 
The first round is an online assessment held on the platform HackerRank. 
Keep your updated resume handy before the assessment as you would need to 
upload it before starting the test. The assessment consisted of 2 sections: MCQs 
and Coding. The MCQs section had around 10-15 questions 10 MCQs based on 
basic data structures, quant aptitude, and logic, code output prediction and basic 
OOPS concepts. The next section was problem-solving (coding) with 2 questions. 
You can toggle between the questions in both the sections. The entire round was to 
be completed within 90 minutes. The coding questions were in the easy to medium 
range of difficulty.  
Be strong with your basics in OOPS, Data Structures and Aptitude to ace the 
MCQs quickly and move on to the coding section. Practice regularly on Problem 
solving websites like leetcode, hacker rank and geeksforgeeks and you will be able 
to develop the ability to find solutions easily. 
(52 students were shortlisted for the next round) 
 
 
2. Technical Interview – Code Pair Round (45 mins): 
 
The shortlisted students were sent an HackerRank invitation link to attend the 
Code Pair round on the next day morning. Make sure that you are using the 
same HackerRank account which you have used for the initial coding round. As you 
enter the assessment you will be paired with an interviewer who will test your 
problem-solving skills with coding. Listen carefully to the question presented by 
him/her and explain your approach first before writing your code. If possible, interact 
with the interviewer as you write your code. I was stuck at one point and he helped 
me through it, so don’t be hesitant to talk to the interviewer. 
 
The question I was asked to code: www.geeksforgeeks.org/detect-and-
remove-loop-in-a-linked-list/ 
 
 I was also asked to code some basic OOPS structures and explain the same. 
Greet the interviewer at the start and end of interviews. 
(Shortlist count for the next round wasn’t shared) 
 
 
 
 
3. Technical Interview – Managerial Discussion (45 mins): 
 
The next round started like after 3-4 hours after the Code Pair round. The 
platform was Microsoft Teams. This was an online video interview where the 
interviewer tries to know about our technical knowledge as well as your managerial 
skills and experiences. He started with the skills mentioned in my resume and went 
along with follow-up questions based on my answers. So be very precise with your 
resume and don’t mention things you are not well-versed in. He asked about my role 
in a technical club I was part of and the responsibilities and challenges faced by me 
in the club.  
Also, he was very interested in the web-development projects I mentioned in 
my resume and asked many questions about them. He created some hypothetical 
problems related to my project and asked my approach on how to solve them. So 
always keep track of every section of the project that you’ve mentioned in the 
resume. Try to interact more with the interviewer by asking some relevant questions 
about the company and his/her role at the end of the interview. 
My overall advice for managerial rounds would be to keep the conversation 
engaging and don’t hesitate to say that you don’t know the correct answer. Since 
this is an entry-level job offer no one will expect you to answer all the questions 
perfectly. 
(Shortlist count for the next round wasn’t shared) 
 
4. HR Round (15-20 mins): 
 
The final round took place on the next day morning and this was a very short 
interview. The platform was again Teams and the interviewer this time was very nice 
and friendly and made me feel very comfortable. She asked me about my previous 
interviews and my experience in the placement process. The round was entirely a 
conversation about my likes and dislikes and how compatible I am working in a 
collaborative environment. She asked about my experiences staying away from 
home and about my relocation preferences. I also shared my interests in sports as 
well. 
 
The important thing to keep in mind during HR rounds is to keep calm and not 
think too hard. There are no correct and wrong answers for this round, so be 
confident.  
 
They announced the results and I was one of the 6 people who were 
given the FTE offer. 
 
The HR staff from the company organised a virtual meeting with the final 
selects to congratulate and welcomed us with warm greetings. 
General Suggestions 
• Start preparing at least 5 to 6 months before the start of the placements. 
• Solve as many problems as you can in the coding platforms like GFG, 
Leetcode, etc. 
• While solving a problem in leetcode, make sure to check out the related 
problems because it will improve your flow in problem-solving. 
• Be thorough with the skills and projects mentioned in the resume. 
• Group projects generally attract interviewers and make them ask 
managerial questions about team works. 
• Be prepared on how to introduce yourself and also limit the introduction 
to around 1 to 1.5 minutes. 
 
One thing I learnt during my placement drives was to keep going and work 
hard and one day you’ll surely be awarded!!  
 
 
ALL THE BEST!! 
 
You can contact me through: 
praveenrs0111@gmail.com 
linkedin.com/in/praveenrs01 
