VISA INTERNSHIP INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
BATCH: 2022 – 2026  
PROCESS FOR: Summer Internship  
NAME OF THE COMPANY: VISA Inc., Bangalore 
ABOUT THE COMPANY: 
Visa Inc. is a global leader in payments technology, dedicated to enabling quick, 
secure, and reliable digital transactions worldwide. While many often mistake 
Visa for a bank or credit card issuer, it is in fact a financial services company 
that powers and facilitates digital payments across the globe. 
NUMBER OF ROUNDS: 2 
 1. Online Coding Round  
 2. Interview (Technical + HR) 
 
ONLINE CODING ROUND: 
 
The online coding round consisted of 4 questions with a duration of 70 
minutes. The questions were mainly based on arrays, strings, and trees and the 
test was conducted on the CodeSignal platform. 
 
I was able to fully solve 3 questions, and for the remaining one, I managed to 
pass about half of the test cases. A total of 15 students were shortlisted for the 
next round. 
 
INTERVIEW (TECHNICAL+HR ): 
 
The interview lasted for about 45 minutes and was conducted on Microsoft 
Teams. The interview started with my introduction. The interviewer then asked 
me how I prepared for the interview and what concepts I had revised. I 
mentioned that I focused on DBMS, OS, OOPS, and DSA . Then he started 
asking questions from them. 
 
Questions from DBMS: 
 
 What concepts have you learned in DBMS? 
 Explain 3NF with an example. 
 Explain 3.5NF with an example. 
 Explain transitive functional dependency with an example. 
 
Questions from OS: 
 
 What concepts have you learned in OS? 
 Explain Round Robin (RR) process scheduling. 
 How is a priority queue used in Round Robin scheduling? 
 
The interviewer  then moved to the code-pair. A  link will be given for code pair, 
where you’d be asked to solve a question along with interviewer and this 
would mostly be in HackerRank. I had to solve two coding problems live: 
 
1. Reverse a string. 
2. Given an array if the sum of any two numbers exists in the array, those 
two numbers should form a subarray, and the remaining elements 
should form another subarray, finally return the array of subarrays. 
 
SAMPLE INPUT: [ 3,5,8,11 ] 
SAMPLE OUTPUT: [[3,5],[8,11]] 
 
Following that, the interviewer asked me to analyze the time complexity of my 
solutions and explain the approach I used to determine it. The interview then 
transitioned to HR-based questions. 
 
HR questions: 
 
 Why should we hire you? 
 Apart from academics, what activities do you participate in at college? 
 What will you do if your day at Visa doesn’t go well? 
 Why did you choose Computer Science as your stream ? 
 What are your hobbies? 
 
 
 
 
Then the interviewer asked whether I had any queries. I asked  the following  
 
 Since Visa is a payment technology company, what tech stack do you use 
to ensure payment security? 
 What does a day in the life of a Visa intern look like? 
 What technologies should I learn before joining as an intern? 
 
The interviewer was very comfortable and supportive throughout the 
process. It was a balanced interview with a mix of technical (DBMS, OS, 
DSA) and HR questions, making it a great learning experience. 
 
The results were announced the following day, and out of 15 candidates, 
5 were selected. I was grateful to be shortlisted as one of the five 
selected candidates. 
 
KEY TAKEAWAYS: 
 
1. Know your resume thoroughly. Include only those projects you are 
confident about and can clearly explain if asked. 
2. Ensure a strong understanding of core subjects like DBMS, OS, and OOPs. 
3. While solving coding questions, clearly explain your approach to the 
interviewer. Start by presenting a brute-force solution, discuss its time 
complexity, and then provide an optimized solution along with its time 
complexity. Explaining your thought process while coding demonstrates 
clarity and problem-solving skills. 
4. Research  about the company thoroughly. When asked if you have any 
questions, ask thoughtful questions related to the company and its 
operations, showing that you have prepared and researched about that 
company. 
5. Stay confident while answering questions. 
 
GENERAL PREPARATION TIPS: 
 
1.  Use the resources provided by the ACM- C.O.D.E group, as they cover all    
important topics and typical interview patterns and try to participate in 
the quizzes and contests conducted by them. They will be really helpful. 
2. The Striver’s A-Z sheet is extremely helpful for understanding  data 
structures and algorithms. 
3.  For  DBMS refer to class notes and GeeksforGeeks (GFG) to strengthen 
your concepts. 
4. For OS refer to class notes, GFG  and follow Sudhakar Atchala’s YouTube 
tutorials for clear explanation of concepts. 
5. For OOPs, cover the topics in Fraz’s OOP sheet and for concepts refer 
GFG 
6. Consistently solve problems on LeetCode and GFG to improve problem-
solving speed and accuracy 
 
Don’t be discouraged if you get rejected despite putting in your best efforts. 
The right opportunity will come at the right time. A lot will go wrong  before 
everything goes right 😇. 
 
                                                   ALL THE BEST!!! 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regards , 
Priyadharshini R 
2022506096 
Information Technology, MIT 
LinkedIn: Priyadharshini R 
 
 
