WIPRO 
 
Wipro is an Indian multinational corporation that provides information technology, consulting and 
business process services. 
 
Round 1 
It was an online round conducted on AMCAT. This round consists of 5 sections : Verbal Ability, 
Logical Reasoning, Quantitative ability, Coding, Essay Writing. There were 2 medium level 
coding questions in the coding section. 
 
Round 2  
It was a technical round and it went for around 30 to 35 minutes. 
 
1)Introduce yourself 
2)During Introduction, I mentioned the project I was working on at that time. So, Questions related 
to that project were asked and that Q&A went for around 10 minutes. 
 
What are the subjects you are interested in? (Answered: DBMS and OOPS). Then, questions from 
those subjects were asked.  
 
3)what are DDL, DML, DCL? 
4)what is normalization? Why normalization? 
5)What is data redundancy? 
6)what is the primary key and foreign key? 
7)Given a Scenario, I was asked to write queries. 
8)what is RDBMS? 
9)What are joins? 
10)Basic OOP concepts 
11)What is Polymorphism? 
12)Mention some real life examples of Polymorphism 
13)Write an Example code for function overloading? 
14)What is data abstraction and encapsulation? 
15)Interviewer asked about subjects in the current semester(7th sem) and some basic questions in 
the subjects covered were asked. 
 
Round 3 
It was the HR round. 
1)Introduce yourself 
2)Why wipro? 
3)What do you know about Wipro? 
4)Can you tell about the time when you demonstrated your leadership skills? 
5)Are you willing to relocate? 
 
Topics to be focussed 
➔ Data Structures 
➔ DBMS 
➔ OOPS 
➔ Operating System 
➔ Basic idea on Computer Networks 
 
Take away 
Continuous Practice of problems from websites like geeksforgeeks, hackerearth, hackerrank will 
help you to crack the coding section in the online round. Be thorough on the basics and confident 
with your answers.  
 
Stay calm and have faith in yourself. Never lose hope. All the best!!! 
 
Priyadharshini P 
priyadharshinipadmanaban001@gmail.com 
 
