MORGAN STANLEY FTE INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
ABOUT THE COMPANY: 
Morgan Stanley operates as a global financial services company. It mobilizes capital to help 
government, corporations, institutions and individuals around the world achieve their financial 
goals. Morgan Stanley is consistently highly ranked in mergers and acquisitions and initial public 
offerings.  
 
Eligibility Criteria: CGPA - 8.0 and above 
Branches Considered: CS & IT 
CTC: 29.48 LPA 
Sequence of Selection: PPT & Online Assessment, 2 Technical Interviews and HR Interview. 
Job Role Offered: Technology Analyst 
 
ROUND 1 – ONLINE ASSESSMENT 
Duration: 90 minutes (about 1 and a half hours) 
The assessment was conducted through SHL platform. It consisted of three sections: Aptitude, 
Debugging and Coding.  
Aptitude – This section was of medium-hard difficulty level.  
Debugging – This section consisted of code snippets to rectify the logic. This was of easy-
medium difficulty level. Initially chosen programming language cannot be changed till the end. 
Coding – This section consisted of 3 coding questions. The three questions were easy. As the 
questions were easy, the time of submission played a greater role in selection. 
Every section was time bounded, that is a section cannot be backtracked once its time slice is 
over.  
After the online assessment, 14 members were shortlisted for the next round – Technical 
Interview I. 
ROUND 2 – TECHNICAL INTERVIEW I 
Mode: Physical 
Duration: 1 hour 
Difficulty level: Easy-Medium 
The interview was based on OS, SQL, DSA, OOPS. It almost covered all major CS domains. The 
interviewer was friendly and he made me feel comfortable so that my anxiety and nervousness 
came down. The interviewer started off with some casual questions like where do I come from? 
And then, he asked me what is the eligibility criterion to enter Anna University? Then he started 
asking technical questions. Below are the questions asked: 
I was asked to debug a code snippet which was written in Cpp . It was a code snippet which 
included dynamic memory allocation using new pointer, array declaration and stuff like that. I 
was able to debug it completely.  
What is the use of header files? Why do we use it? 
Question on cpp library - vector.h. (I am good at Java language. So, I said to the interviewer that 
I am good and comfortable with Java. So, he started asking Java questions.) 
Questions on OOPS: 
Define an abstract class. Write the code to illustrate an example of an abstract class. 
What are the access specifiers available in Java Programming language? 
Questions on OS: 
What are threads? 
What is a deadlock? 
What are the necessary conditions for a deadlock to occur? 
Questions on SQL: 
Write a query to create a table. 
Write a query to insert data into a table. 
What is left outer join, inner join and cross join? 
Coding questions: 
What is time complexity? Write the time complexity classes in ascending order. 
Write any sorting algorithm. Explain the working of it. Write down the best-case time 
complexity for it.  
What is the difference between a run-time error and a compile time-error? 
Given four persons at designations – D1, D2, D3, D4, respectively where D1 is the least 
designation and D4 is the highest. The person can skip one position and get promoted to the 
second next higher position or he can get promoted to the next higher position. Write down 
the possible ways to reach D4. This question is similar to this problem. STAIRCASE PROBLEM - 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-ways-reach-nth-stair/ 
Given login time, logout time for n employees in a company. The task is to find the minimum 
number of chairs in a company to accommodate ‘n’ employees. This question is like this 
problem – MINIMUM NUMBER OF PLATFORMS REQUIRED FOR A RAILWAY/BUS STATION - 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/minimum-number-platforms-required-railwaybus-station/ 
Write a program to find if a string is palindrome or not. 
For the coding questions, I was asked to write the logic. 
I was able to answer all the questions. The most important thing is to communicate with the 
interviewer throughout the interview session. Even if you get stuck up thinking logic, the 
interviewer gives you hint to crack it. So, communicate your thoughts throughout. Do not 
hesitate to do that assuming that you are wrong. Be bold and confident with your answers. 
Shortlisting was done for the next round. 
ROUND 3 – TECHNICAL INTERVIEW II 
Mode: Physical 
Duration: 45 minutes 
Difficulty level: Easy 
The interviewer started off asking me to give a self intro. This round was on System Design. He 
gave me a scenario to design a system. I was asked to design a vending system which is used in 
malls.  
Functionalities required: 
• Display the items available. 
• Receive the order. 
• Check the inventory. 
• Check for successful payment and deliver the products. 
• Update the inventory. 
I was asked to draw the class diagram for the system proposed. Usage of appropriate data 
structures in some of the functionalities were asked. I made corrections as per his views. He 
asked me to draw the database tables required for this system. I included a third-party Payment 
Processing system in my diagram. So, he asked me to draw a class diagram which focuses on 
the Payment modes – UPI, Cash and Card. He asked me to explain the OOPS concept involved in 
that diagram. Some OS questions which were asked: 
What is multithreading? What are its benefits? What are the ways in which multithreading can 
be established using Java? 
Write a code snippet which illustrates the principle of Mutual Exclusion. 
Which is the keyword in Java used to ensure mutual exclusion?  
Given two tables – Students information table and Company selects table. Write a SQL query to 
find the name of the student and the company name where he got placed who belongs to XYZ 
college and receives the highest salary offered in the city Mumbai. 
Questions were asked on the tech stack mentioned in the projects.  
Finally, I was asked to ask a question to the interviewer. I asked him about the work culture at 
Morgan and being a FinTech company, how does it differ from the other product-based 
companies. 
I found him impressed with my answers and had a hope that I would get selected for the next 
round. Shortlisting was done for the final round. 
ROUND 4 – HR INTERVIEW 
Mode: Physical 
Duration: 25 minutes 
This round seemed little harder than the previous rounds. The interviewer greeted me and 
started asking the questions. The questions were like: 
How many projects have you worked on? 
What are the difficulties that you have faced while working on projects? 
The requirements of the project changed in the middle while your project was half way 
completed. How would handle that circumstance? 
Tell me about the toughest decision that you have taken while working on projects. 
Assume that you are the team lead and your teammate is not very co-operative. He is very 
lethargic and does not submit the assigned work within the deadline. What will be your action 
towards him as a team lead? 
Assume that you are proposing a solution to a problem while the other person is proposing an 
efficient one compared to yours. Will you give up on your idea or stand by yours? 
Tell me your experience when you have taken risks while working on projects and the results 
occurred from your risks were not as you expected. 
I found this round a very formal discussion and it was a bit tough. Going through sample HR 
questions and a light preparation, rather than on spot answering will help you ace the HR 
interview. 
3 of us were selected as FTE at Morgan Stanley. 
Tips: 
Strictly restrict your resume to 1 page. List out honestly only the skills what you possess in your 
resume. 
Think aloud. Express your views and ideas. 
Be strong in OOPS concepts, DBMS, OS, DSA.  
Before the interview, read about the company well.  
        All the very best! 
PRIYADHARSHINI P (2019-2023) 
Feel free to reach me out at: www.linkedin.com/in/priyadharshini-p- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
