CITI CORP Interview Experience 
 
Citi Corp, officially known as Citigroup Inc., is one of the largest 
multinational financial services corporations in the world. Citi operates in over 
160 countries with more than 200 million customer accounts worldwide, 
providing a broad range of financial services with headquarters in New York, 
U.S. Citi is known for its focus on digital transformation, investing heavily in 
fintech and other technologies to stay competitive.  
Role Offered: ICG Intern 
Stipend: 75,000 INR per month 
Sequence of Job Selection:  PPT, Online Assessment, Technical Interview, HR 
Interview 
Online Assessment (27.09.2024): 
It consisted of four sections 
 Coding questions -2 (45 mins) 
 SQL Questions -12 (15 mins) 
 React Based Questions -12 (15 mins) 
 Angular Based Questions -12 (15 mins) 
The test lasted for 1.30 hrs. The important point to note is You can’t switch 
between the Sections. You should go with the give sequence of questions. 
Coding Question -1(Easy) 
Count the nonrepeating character in a string. 
The input string consists of alphanumeric and special characters only. The input 
string is case sensitive. Uppercase characters and lowercase characters are 
counted as different. If no such character return 0. 
Sample Testcase: 
String= ”aabbccdde” 
Output: 
1 
Hint: 
Use hash map to count frequency and find the count of characters with 
occurrence 1. 
Coding Question -2(Easy) 
Count the number that is present in another number. 
In a school, there are activity groups. Each group has been Identified by a digit 
from 0 to 9. The school principal wants to find out how many students are in a 
particular activity group so that the school administration can provide a 
classroom for the activity according to the number of students. Write an 
algorithm for the school management to find the number of students who 
belongs to a particular activity group. 
Sample Testcases: 
3 
123343 
Output: 
3 
Hint: 
Convert the number into string. Iterate and count the occurrence of the number. 
SQL Questions: 
SQL questions were easy to medium. It consisted of SQL commands, Joins, 
subqueries, DBMS. 
React and Angular Js Questions: 
 It includes conceptual questions, finding missing terms, finding the correct 
statements. 
Based on the Online Assessment ,28 people were shortlisted for the technical 
Interview. 
Technical Interview (30.09.2024) (30 mins): 
The technical interview started with an introduction of myself. The interviewer 
started going through my Resume. 
 I was asked about Prompt Engineering because I mentioned that in my 
resume. And she also shared their experience with GenAI. 
 She asked about my project and what was the role I played in the project. 
I was asked to draw an Architecture diagram for my project and I 
explained that. 
 After that, she asked Why I had chosen the SQLite DB (I used SQLite in 
my project), and I answered that. 
 I was asked to draw an ER diagram of my project and explain it. She 
asked about primary key, and foreign key relationships in my ER 
diagram. 
 Asked SQL query from my project DB. I used joins in my query. She 
asked to explain about joins and cartesian product. How do you find 
whether the query engine performs cartesian product or not for the given 
query? I was not able to provide the correct answer for this. 
 I was asked about Mongo DB(I mentioned that in my current project). I 
told that I was in the learning phase. 
 She asked me to design a Login page and I explained that. 
 She asked me, how do you send the entered data to the server side. I 
answered that I would use the POST method. She asked me if we can 
easily hack it and how do you provide security to the data. I said we can 
encrypt data using an encryption algorithm and I gave an example 
algorithm name. 
 She asked about the framework used for the same and also about OAuth. 
I said I was not aware of implementing them. 
 She asked which is the hardest problem have solved in Leetcode (I 
mentioned in my resume the number of problems I solved). 
 And then she gave me a Problem.  
 You are a thief, there is a city with many homes. You have gain for 
each home and you have to travel a distance to reach a home. With 
a limited amount of time, you have to maximize the gain. 
 My approach is, to sort the homes based on both distance and gain, 
sequentially adding the gain. Return the gain (greedy approach) 
 Finally, She asked why had I chosen Citi. 
 She asked me whether I had questions, and I asked about her experience 
in the industry and the Tech Stack she is working on. 
Out of 28 members,11 were selected for HR round. 
 
 
HR Interview (30.09.2024) (15 mins): 
 
He asked me about the flow of my Technical Interview. And We 
discussed general topics. There was a good conversation between us. 
 Asked about my school studies 
 Why did you choose Engineering? 
 Can AI replace my job? 
 My background? 
 Why don’t you go for higher studies? 
 How do you want to see yourself in future? 
 We discussed some other things also. 
 I asked him a question that is “Impact or development of AI in financial 
sector”. He shared his insights with me. 
Out of 11, 7 people were selected for Internship Including me. 
Tips: 
 Solve problems in LeetCode, Geeks for Geeks, Hacker Rank. 
 Be prepared in core concepts like DBMS, DSA and OS. 
 You should Prepare for each and every word in your resume. 
 You can follow TakeUForward, Neetcode for problem solving. 
 Go through previous year questions for the company from geeks for 
geeks, glass door, Interview Bit. 
 Prepare Intro, Project Explanation (STAR Method- Situation, Task, 
Action, Result) before the interview. 
 
ALL the Very Best!! 
 
 
 
Ragavan R 
MIT CSE’26 
Email: ragavanr738@gmail.com 
 
 
 
