WELLS FARGO INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
(INTERNSHIP) 
 
Role: 
 
Software Engineer Intern 
 
About the company: 
 
Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational financial services 
company with a significant global presence. The company operates in 35 
countries and serves over 70 million customers worldwide. Today, Wells Fargo 
India operates in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, and Chennai. It is considered one of the 
"Big Four Banks" in the United States, alongside JPMorgan Chase, Bank of 
America, and Citigroup. 
 
Online test : 
     
The online test was conducted on the SHL platform.  It was a proctored test 
and we were asked to attend  the test in IST dept labs. The test consisted of four 
sections. 
The first section consisted of verbal questions. It had twelve questions which 
had to be completed within 15 minutes which could be answered pretty easily if 
you had basic English knowledge. You can’t move between sections. 
     
 The second section consisted of 14 business aptitude questions with a time 
limit of 25 minutes. Questions were based on stocks and shares, data 
interpretations based on pie charts, bar charts, graphs. You should be able to solve 
those easily with basic math. Just don’t spend too much time on a question and try 
to complete all the questions. There is no negative marking and you can’t navigate 
between questions of a section.  
     
The third round consisted of two easy to medium level coding questions with 
a time limit of 40 minutes. In this section you can navigate between questions. 
Driver 
code 
will 
be 
given. 
The 
first 
question 
is  
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/area-of-intersection-of-two-circles/ . You have to 
return the answer rounded up to six decimals. 
The second question was simple. You have to return a lexicographically sorted list 
of repeated words in a given string. You could see how many test cases your code 
has passed. It was clearly stated that they are expecting a solution which passes 
all the test cases rather than an efficient code which is partially passing the test 
cases. 
      
The fourth section consisted of one question which has to be solved in 10 
minutes. The question was based on Königsberg's seven bridges. I was only able 
to solve 1 of the 3 coding questions. More weightage was given to aptitude and 
verbal than coding questions. You can solve the coding problems in the language 
of your choice. 
22 students got selected for the interview. 
 
Round 1 : 
      
The round started with a standard tell me about yourself question. The 
interviewer asked me to design a database and write a select query with joins. Also 
asked me to write any sorting of my choice other than bubble sort and merge sort 
(because most of the people before me have chosen those 2 algos). I chose 
quicksort, visualized how it works to the deepest and wrote pseudocode for it. It’s 
okay if you don’t know the answers for some questions. At last, the interviewer 
asked me if I had any questions for him. Be prepared with some questions. Most 
of the candidates who passed this round were selected. 
 
Round 2: 
      My experience of this round will be different from my peers. They had 
technical as well as questions from my resume. This round was completely me 
asking questions to him. This was the best round of experience that I had in the 
interview. We were just sharing our thoughts and brainstorming about conducting 
hackathons (because I mentioned that I have participated in 2 All-India level 
hackathons). He even asked me to have some biscuits that were given to him 
  . In this round he was just observing how curious I was.  
 
Round 3: 
      This was a typical HR round. During the interview, I was asked to introduce 
myself. I mentioned my strengths, technical interests, club responsibilities, and 
personal interests. The interviewer asked me why I want to intern at Wells Fargo. 
You just need to let them know that you are a good team player. 
After this, 12 candidates were selected out of the initial 22 for internship. 
 
TIPS: 
● Be prepared with the DSA concepts. 
● Don’t panic at any point. 
● Being a bit good in communication would really help you in your interview. 
● I was not selected in my very first interview, so try until you get it right.   
 
 
All the best people!... 
 
Raghul V 
CSE CEG’26 
Mail: raghul11072004@gmail.com 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/raghul-v-381b93201/ 
Contact: +91 8825875835 
 
