ORACLE GBU
 
 Online Assessment 
 
 
1 Dsa problem, 1 Rest api problem and some mcqs. 
 
Get an interview call somehow. 
 
 Technical round 1 (55mins - 1hr) 
 
Asked to introduce myself. I did it in a way conveying indirectly that I’m 
strong in DSA. Then she said ‘It seems you’re good in DSA’ and asked me about 
heaps. I told her what heap is and explained the structure of both max and min heap. 
Then I was asked about any real world application of heap. I said ‘Any situation 
where we need the objects to get arranged acc to a data member. Heaps are handy 
in sorting’. Then was asked to tell two other sorting algorithms. I said Merge and 
Bubble. Asked to tell the time complexities of all three algos. I told her and also 
proved why nlogn for heap and merge, and n^2 for bubble. I talked about heapify 
algo in depth and time complexity of heapify is logn and we’re heapifying n times so 
nlogn for heap sort. Like wise I did explain for both merge (in-place) and bubble 
(comparison based). 
 
Then a big discussion on my internship. What is the product I’ve worked on? 
I explained the product and the idea behind the product. Then she asked about some 
internal implementations of the product. I said I’ve worked only on the view level 
(Front end) and was not exposed to all those internal and conceptual stuff. She was 
fine and asked me whether my codes are in production now. I said ‘yes, it’s live now. 
It’s available in playstore’. Then she was discussing about the tech stack and asked 
me many trivial questions which I don’t even remember now. Like how the works 
will get assigned to you, is it flexible, blah blah !! (If you did internship on your own 
and have real knowledge about the work that you did, getting through this is really 
easy) 
 
Then a simple dsa problem. To find whether we can form a palindrome 
using all the character in a string. I told her the approach. Follow up is to print any 
resultant string if it’s possible to form. She asked me to code it and dry run for 2 
testcases asap as we were running out of time.  
 
Then she asked how to load data from any url in javascript. I talked about 
fetch and axios and also wrote the syntax of both. 
 
Asked me ‘Ever been in a situation where you need to get data from 2 apis 
simultaneously in JS?’. I said No as I didn’t work in JS much. Later I found there are 
multiple methods and she was expecting me to talk on Promise in JS. 
 
Then she asked me how processes gets into CPU. I talked about every 
process states in OS, why premption is good / bad. While explaining I said ‘We 
shouldn’t keep our CPU idle right?’. She was like ‘Yeah obviosly’. And I explained 5 
popular job scheduling algorithms quickly one by one. 
 
 Technical round 2 (40-45 mins) 
 
 
Asked me to introduce myself. Introduced as same as previous round. She 
asked me which is the data structure I’m more familiar with. I said Graphs. She 
asked me to explain Graph. I opened sketchpad and started talking about everything 
I know in graph and explained her visually by sketching it in sketchpad. Started with 
nodes and edges. Then directed and undirected graphs. Then components, 
connected components and strongly connected components. Finally she asked to me 
add 3 more nodes to the existing graph that I drew while explaining and she also 
gave me the edges and asked a simple shortest distance question mentioning the 
source and destination. I told her the approach and dry ran it visually step by step 
(not asked to code). 
 
 
Again some questions on projects and internships. 
 
 
Then I was asked to design the linked list class with all methods available in 
collections. I asked the requirements and coded the same. 
 
 
Then she asked me about polymorphism. I explained it and talked about 
compile time and run time polymorphism. She asked me to code and show how run 
time polymorphism works. I did it and also told why its called as run time 
polymorphism. While explaining I said ‘this new keyword is responsible for creating 
an actual memory in heap which happens in run-time’. Then she suddenly asked me 
what happens if I keep on creating objects using new keyword in java. I told her 
about internal heap memory, Garbage collector and finalize method in java. 
 
 HR round (1hr) 
 
 
This is more of a discussion. He was talking more than me. Yes, he was talking 
for like half an hour. 
 
 
First he went through my resume for a minute and asked me what dart is. 
This is not even a tech question. He might wanted to ask something that’s odd in my 
resume. Told him about dart and why I had to learn it (Flutter). 
 
 
Then he asked me to tell what all I did in my 3 years of college life. Took 
easily more than 10mins to explain it (This is basically an introduction question. But 
here we need to introduce the actual us, not limiting it to techie us). 
 
 
Then he asked me, ‘Why are you here? Why are you giving this interview?’. I 
was like ‘Why in the sense?’. He said ‘What’s the actual purpose of you giving this 
interview? Are you sure you’re in the right path of your life?’. Then I was saying 
something for like 10mins. I told him why I got interested in computer science. How 
a person can evolve in this field and why it’s so interesting than a normal 9-4 job. 
And blah blah. Told about what all I can relate me with computer science. 
 
 
A small discussion on my internship. Then he asked me whether I have any 
questions for him. 
 
 
I asked him the difference between GBU and OFSS. He said it’s a great 
question and started explained everything for like 10mins (Oracle visited PSG tech 
for 3 different roles. That’s how I got to know about OFSS). Then I asked about 6m 
internship like do we work on production or is it fully a bootcamp. Then I said 
‘Every youtubers who work in big product based companies are showing 
themselves chilling all time in play area, cafeteria, etc...Is this true like don’t you 
guys work much’. He started laughing and started explaining the work culture of 
Oracle and how people with different learning curves work and chill there. 
 
 
After I’m done with my questions he said ‘Okay now let me ask you one 
question’. I was like ‘Yes, sure’. Then he said ‘Okay assume that I’m giving you an 
Oracle GBU offer. Sametime another org is also approaching you with an offer. 
Let’s say Subspace (I did my internship there). So which one will you accept?’. I said 
Oracle and also explained why. Like I said networking is more important for an 
individual (He nodded and told that network helps one to grow). I told him if I join 
Oracle I’ll get an opportunity to get connected with technically sounded minds and 
evolve myself along with them. So basically this was the context and I was talking on 
it for 3-4mins. 
 
 
Then he said ‘Okay let me ask you one more question. You watch cricket 
right. Now Indian team is performing good. Back then in 2000s, Sachin was the only 
saviour of India but if you see Australia, all 11 players were top talented players. So 
hypothetically if you were given a chance to join any one of these boards, which 
would have been your choice. To join Australia saying that all 11 players are talented 
or to join India saying I’ll make India a better team like Australia?’. We both started 
laughing at eachother and I was like ‘Is this what people call a typical HR question?’.  
 
He said ‘Yes this is, okay let me put it straight. Oracle, a new place for you which 
has better people, or Subspace, your current org which has more interns. Don’t 
you help Subspace to grow better’. I was telling him something for 4-5mins which I 
don’t even remember now. Then he said ‘To be honest, there’s no right answer for 
this question. It depends on individuals. I was just curious to know your answer. 
That’s it’.  
 
 
Then he said ‘It was nice talking to you Rishi. HR lead will get connected with 
you’ and disconnected the call. 
 
 
 
 
Tips to ace an interview, 
 
 Have a great Cp profile and you’re half way done with your interviews. 
 
 Don’t get overwhelmed. Treat interviewers like your Juniors and answer every 
question like you were given a chance to teach. 
 
 Don’t give one liners as answers. If you did, you will end up getting follow ups on 
follow ups. Try to avoid follow ups by explaining everything in depth. 
 
 Don’t be silent while you’re coding. Always have your interviewer’s attention. 
Keep on talking or explaining whatever you code in paper / codepair. 
 
 Try to build conversation with your interviewer and move your interview more 
of a discussion than a rapid fire round. 
 
 Always have your personal projects deployed and provide the live link in your 
resume if it’s web dev. 
 
 
Resources, 
 
 YouTube 
 
1. TakeUForward (Dsa), 
2. Kunal Kushwaha (OOP, Java internals, networks and Docker), 
3. Gate Smashers (Os, Dbms), 
4. CP ( Utkarsh Gupta, Priyansh Agarwal, Code master cpp, Erichto, Second 
Thread, William Lin, etc..) 
5. Keerti Purswani (Design Patterns) 
6. Gaurav Sen (System design) 
 
 For dedicated object oriented design rounds, one best and go to book is 
Grooking the Object Oriented Design Interviews 
 
 Dsa cheat sheet - Striver’s SDE sheet 
 
Reach me at LinkedIn. 
 
