                                                        TEMENOS 
 
Temenos is a company specializing in enterprise software for banks and financial services. 
Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, and with 67 offices in 40 countries, Temenos serves over 
3,000 financial institutions in 145 countries across the world. It claims to be used by 41 of the top 
50 banks worldwide. 
 
Round 1: (Time duration – 1 hr.) 
 
Focus on database queries and scenario-based coding. 
We were asked to build a bank system where the customer banking details, withdrawals and 
transactions can be recorded, a library system and then queries for updating the match scores (ipl 
score board). A scenario-based essay was asked. 
 
Round 2: (Time duration – 30 min) 
 
1. Tell me about yourself? 
 
2. Questions focused on Resume. 
 
3. Technologies used in projects. (I did projects on AWS (Amazon Web Services) and Machine 
learning and Blockchain. So, I was asked to explain all the modules used in these projects.) 
and questions were asked based on these technologies. 
 
4. SQL queries (find the second maximum number in a row, write a query to find duplicate 
emails in a database, etc.,) 
 
5. Asked to rate my skills in CPP (1-10) [justify why you rated] 
 
6. CPP questions, OOPS concepts (explain with real life examples) 
 
7. Strength and Weakness 
 
8. Why should we hire you? 
 
9. Any questions for me? (ask some questions related to Temenos) 
 
 
Round 3: HR Round [Duration – 15+ min] 
 
1. Introduce yourself? 
 
2. Asked to explain questions related to projects (what is the objective, what problem did your 
project solve? What are the difficulties you faced?) 
 
3. As I did project on Blockchain, I was asked to explain blockchain in a simple manner and its uses 
and how does it function) 
 
4. Some general questions 
Topics to be focused: 
 
 Database management systems 
 Object oriented programming 
 Algorithms 
 Be ready to answer any questions related to your projects. 
 
 
Take away: 
 
Just be confident while you answer. You will rock the interview for sure! 
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Rohini R 
rohiniraja.cse@gmail.com 
