Wells Fargo (Internship) 
Batch: 2019 - 2023 
Name of the Company: Wells Fargo  
About: 
Wells Fargo is a leading global financial services company headquartered in San Francisco (United States). Wells 
Fargo has offices in over 30 countries and territories. Business outside of the U.S. mostly focuses on providing 
banking services for large corporate, government and financial institution clients. They have worldwide expertise 
and services to help their customers improve earnings, manage risk, and develop opportunities in the global 
marketplace. 
            
My Interview Experience : 
Number of Rounds : 4  
1. Online Test  
2. Technical round  
3. Managerial round 
4. HR round 
           
Round 1 : Aptitude & Coding 
It took place in AMCAT platform. It consists of three sections, namely verbal aptitude, business aptitude 
and the coding oart.  
In verbal aptitude, questions were generally based on synonyms, choose the alternate phrases and some 
comprehensive questions. 
Next, comes business aptitude, where the questions are mainly based on stocks and business, data 
interpretations based on graphs and pie-charts. So, the key factor here is time management, be quick 
enough to read those large explanatory passages and understand exactly what is asked to interpret.  
Then, the third section consists of two coding questions which were bit easy. Also you have to code both 
these questions from scratch (driver code). 
And the questions that I had were, 
1 . Given a string of length N, which contains ‘1’ , ‘0’ and ‘?’ . Return all the binary strings that can be 
formed by replacing the ‘?’ with ‘0’ or ‘1’. 
Generate all binary strings from given pattern - GeeksforGeeks (Backtracking approach) 
2 . A balloon game is being played among people numbered from 1 to n in circle. Given an integer k which 
is the number of balloon pass, after which the person should be eliminated. The condition is before 
elimination of a particular person, the balloon should be passed to the next one. Find the winner ? (one 
who remains at last) 
Josephus problem | Set 1 (A O(n) Solution) - GeeksforGeeks (Similar technique) 
     
I was able to pass all test cases passed for both the questions. 
A total of 30 students were selected to the next round. 
 
General Tip : Try to answer as many aptitude questions as possible, which almost confirms your opportunity for the 
next round. Basic math and quantitative knowledge is sufficient. In case of any practice, you can refer IndiaBix . 
Coding Tip : Have a regular practice in  geeksforgeeks and leetcode. Also have a look at past coding problems of the 
company you are attending, that might be helpful. Get acquainted with lengthy problem statements. Be prepared to 
code from scratch, as we are always get used to code only the functionalities. 
       
Round 2 : Technical Interview (1 hr) 
The interview was conducted on Zoom. The interviewer first asked to introduce myself. She then asked me 
to share my screen and open any IDE that I have.  
She then gave me two coding questions, of basic level. The first coding question was asked to   Program to 
convert a given number to words and the interviewer was satisfied with my solution. Then the next one was 
Find the occurrences of digit d in the range [0..n] , after coding both of these questions, she moved on to some 
basics.  
She then moved on to some basics. Some of the questions on OOPS were encapsulation vs data 
abstraction, overloading vs overriding and polymorphism. Then there were questions on DBMS like what is 
RDBMS ,hashing etc. She then asked some basic Data Structures questions, and some sorting algorithms 
like Radix sort, Insertion sort. 
Atlast, the interviewer asked whether I have any questions (Always ask some questions to show that you 
are interested to build a conversation). I asked about the work-life balance, and the domain in which we 
would work our projects etc.. 
Overall the interview went very well and I was shortlisted for the next round. 
     
General Tip : Focus on DSA, DBMS, OOPS, OS. Always be positive and confident in answering your 
questions. Mention only the skills that your strong enough in your resume. 
     
 
Round 3 : Managerial Interview (40 mins) 
This round was also conducted on Zoom. I was interviewed by Senior Manager. He was very friendly, and 
asked to introduce myself. He then asked how was the day and what are your take aways from previous 
round.  
Before going on to my resume, he said that this round will be only on projects and some general talk and 
not based on technical aspect as it was in the previous round. Then I was asked to explain one of my 
project which was done in group. So, I went on with my DBMS project. After explaining my project, he 
asked some questions like how did we split our work as a team, conflict between friends, handling 
suggestions of everyone as a team, a problem at which all of you were stuck etc.. 
Then he moved on to my hobbies and we had a fun discussion around cricket (hobby).  
Then it was my turn to ask any questions that I have. So, I made use of this opportunity and asked him 
various questions like in what way Wells Fargo uniquely handled to overcome this pandemic over online, 
which one do you prefer btw work from home or office, tech stacks used in the company, and some 
questions about our internship. 
Overall it was a very good experience. After this I had an HR call. 
General Tip : Be bold and enthusiastic, and don’t hesitate to ask any questions. Have an idea or 
explanation of each and every topics of your resume that you have mentioned. Refer interview 
experiences in GFG, so that you would be well prepared. 
 
Round 4 : HR Interview (5 mins) 
This was a telephonic interview. He asked me to introduce myself. Then he asked me to give an overview 
on my projects. He then asked where I’m from and asked about relocation choices. 
Finally, 12 students were selected for internship. 
      
Preparation Tips :  
 Try to kick start your preparation atleat 2 months before with CODE-ACM materials, that gives you 
the base and exposure to variety of topics. If you ain’t started, nothing is too late, start of with a 
fresh mind. 
             
 Best practice is you ensure that you are good enough in a particular topic, and then jump into the 
next one. Most importantly, while solving a problem, don’t urge yourself unless you grasp the root 
cause of the problem and have a mind map to connect all those problems of same category, that 
will be the best effective way rather than solving many. 
             
           
 So CODE-ACM, gfg and leetcode will help you in your coding prep. And after completing all these, 
you can also try InterviewBit (has a standard set of problems in strings, DP, backtracking). Also for 
DP and backtracking you can get your doubts cleared by watching TECH DOSE - YouTube 
            
 For OOPS you can refer PREP INSTA and OOPs - InterviewBit  
            
 For DBMS you can have a look at DBMS - Interviewbit and DBMS - YouTube 
             
 For OS, Last Minute Notes – OS might help you during your preparation. 
 
 And finally, be strong in your Resume. 
     
 So atlast during your internship drive, before attending any interview of any company, have a look 
at the interview experience in gfg of that particular company, so that you would have a clear 
picture of the process. 
 
Take Aways :  
 Solve the problem whole heartedly by getting the logic behind of each problem you solve instead of 
urging to solve many. 
 Don’t have a mindset that interviewers are always there only to drill you. They always makes you 
feel comfortable and helps you in figuring out the solution. 
 Combine studies with your friend will be healthy helps you a lot during this journey. Don’t take any 
peer pressure. Always be positive and confident in any circumstances. 
 
Wishing you the best of luck in your future endeavours😇 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SACHIN RAGHUL T 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8610047802 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sachinraghult2002@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SACHIN RAGHUL | LinkedIn 
