BATCH: 2019-2013
FOR: Internship
NAME OF THE COMPANY:Wells Fargo International Solutions Private Limited,
Bangalore
ABOUT:
Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational financial services company. They
provide banking, investment and mortgage products and services, as well as consumer
and commercial finance through more than 7,200 locations, more than 13,000 ATMs,
the internet (wellsfargo.com) and mobile banking.
NUMBER OF ROUNDS: 4
1. Online Test
2. Interview Round 1
3. Interview Round 2 (Senior Manager Round)
4. HR Round
ONLINE TEST:
This round consisted of three sections, conducted on the AMCAT platform.
First section was verbal aptitude. Questions like choose the correct meaning, fill in the
blank with appropriate words were asked. Second section was called business aptitude.
Questions were largely based on graph interpretations(pie charts, bar graphs, line
graphs) and also data interpretation, prerequisites regarding any business terms not
required. Third section consisted of two coding questions. Everyone got different sets of
questions for this section. Mostly the questions will be some commonly asked
questions, but it will be written in the form of a scenario, a paragraph per se. Do be
prepared to quickly grasp the constraints of the question.
The questions that I got -
1. Generate binary string
2. A variation of Find Minimum sum of product of two arrays where a 2D matrix was
given and I was required to find the minimum sum of product of all possible
pairs of arrays.
A total of 30 students were shortlisted from both CSE and IT.
INTERVIEW ROUND 1 (1h)
The interview was conducted on Zoom. The interviewer first asked to introduce myself.
He then asked me to share my screen and open notepad or any IDE. He then gave me a
coding problem (Number of overtakes | Practice Problems). I had suggested an O(n2)
solution and coded it. He asked me to optimize it, but I wasn’t able to. (PS - Do not ever
give up and say “I don’t know” to any answer, especially coding questions. Try to
approach it. The interviewer is mostly focussed on your approach rather than the final
solution).
He then proceeded to ask me Find missing element in a sorted array of consecutive
numbers. I began to suggest an O(n) solution to which he said he wanted the optimized
solution instead. I explained the Binary Search method. I wasn’t asked to code the final
solution. The interviewer then ended the interview by asking if I have any questions
(Always prepare some questions and keep. It shows that you are interested in the
position that you’re applying for). I asked him who in the organization would be
responsible for any security breaches that could happen.
INTERVIEW ROUND 2 (40 mins)
I thought I wasn’t shortlisted for the second round, as everyone I had asked had already
finished their second round. But I had received a call, around two hours after the first
round, asking me to attend the second round immediately.
The second round was also conducted on Zoom. I was greeted by the Senior Manager.
She first asked me to introduce myself. Then I was asked to say something about myself
that is not in my resume. I had told her about my strengths and weaknesses.
She then asked me about my hobbies. Some questions regarding a previous internship I
had done (PS: Be mindful of what you say in interviews as questions will often arise
from it.) I had mentioned something about the HTTP protocol. She asked me what it
is, and what other protocols I know.
I was then asked to write a function to check if a given string is a palindrome
(Palindrome String) . Then she asked me if I know radix sort, I said no (Do not lie in
interviews. If you don’t know something, politely admit.) She asked me to explain the
working of merge sort (Merge Sort). I wasn’t required to code it.
The interview ended with her asking if I had any questions. I asked about how a day
would look like for an intern at Wells Fargo.
HR ROUND (5 mins)
This round was a telephonic round. He asked me to first introduce myself. Then he
asked about my parents, where they’re from. He asked about my previous internship
too. Then the interview ended with him asking if I was willing to relocate.
TOPICS TO BE FOCUSSED:
●The usual important topics (DSA, DBMS, OOPS, OS) (Googling “Interview
questions on ____” gives a tonne of useful, consolidated resources that are
interview focussed)
●Ensure that you can provide an explanation for every single topic written in your
resume.
●Archives of the particular company on GFG give good insight into the general
difficulty level of questions asked, and also the number of rounds for the
particular company.
KEY TAKEAWAYS:
●Never panic if you don’t answer a couple of questions in the interview. The
interviewer is merely seeing how you would act in different situations.
●Have some interesting hobbies. (I had mentioned crochet, which was an
immediate hit with the interviewer in the second round)
●Always try to answer the questions asked. Instead of saying “I don’t know”, you
can say something like “I don’t know, but from whatever knowledge I have, I am
guessing …”.
●Prepare an introduction and practice it. Just winging it will never workout. It will
merely make a person look shabby, awkward and unprepared.
●Prepare answers for other non-tech questions also (What are your
strengths/weaknesses, Why do you want this internship, etc)
●Try to have a good rapport with the interviewer. Show that you’re excited to be
there, because they’re also humans like us.
Wishing you all the very best!
Safiya Fathima
https://www.linkedin.com/in/safiya-fathima-syed/
