       ENPHASE ENERGY 
 
 
Enphase Energy is one of the fastest growing and most dynamic Energy Systems Companies 
in the world. By combining the power of solar energy and the proven advantages of 
communications technology, Enphase Energy makes solar power systems productive, reliable, smart 
and safe.  Micro inverter system is profoundly changing the way solar systems function, and as a 
result, changing the solar industry itself.  
 
Enphase Energy is using the innovation that made them world leader in micro inverter 
technology to transform energy generation and management forever. 
Enphase Energy consists of: 
Round 1: Technical interview 
1. Introduce yourself 
2. Code interview platform where interviewer given a program to show the output of Anagram.  
3. Puzzle question related to matrix and they asked to show the logic as well. 
4. Questions related to my projects which I have been done in my academic. 
5. Basic programming concepts 
After completion of Technical interview shortlisted candidates were moved to the Director round. 
Round 2: Director round 
1. Round started with the Technical discussion and programming. 
2. Asked about to explain in detail about one my project and had a few questions as well. 
3. Questions on OOPs concepts  
4. Company details and location  
Shortlisted candidates were moved to final round 
Round 3: Final Round 
1. They asked about my project titles and technology which I have been used. 
2. Had a question on which programming language I am good at. 
3. Questions on subject which I have choose as Elective. 
Topics to be focused: 
1. Strong mathematical and analytical skills. 
2. Programming knowledge of object oriented and functional programming languages, Hand 
on in Java or Python.  
3. Good interpersonal skills and passion for solving problems 
 
 
Take away: 
Having a CGPA of 8 or above 8 and good knowledge of coding and problem solving will help you 
to be placed in this company. 
 
 
N. Sai Suma 
saisuma3277@gmail.com 
 
