Intern Interview Experience ŌĆō Barclays 
 
About the Company: 
Barclays is a British multinational bank founded in 1690 and headquartered in London, 
with operations in nearly 40 countries and serving around 48 million customers. Known 
for historic ’¼ürstsŌĆölike funding the worldŌĆÖs ’¼ürst industrial steam railway and launching 
the worldŌĆÖs ’¼ürst ATM in 1967ŌĆöit today oŲ»ers services spanning retail and corporate 
banking, investment banking, and wealth management. With assets exceeding ┬Ż1.5 
trillion, Barclays is doubling down on innovation: backing AI startups, driving open 
banking, and committing over $1 trillion to sustainable ’¼ünance by 2030. It continues to 
cement its role as a key player in shaping the future of global ’¼ünance. 
 
There were two stages to the selection process: 
’üČ Online Assessment 
’üČ Interviews 
Around 450 students applied, and only ~170 were shortlisted for the OA. 
Online Assessment 
’üČ Online Assessment was 70 mins for 25 questions: 20 MCQs and 5 SQL 
queries.  
’üČ MCQs were based on OOPS concepts, output prediction, and debugging of 
C/C++/Java, basic aptitude questions. 
’üČ The SQL questions, while conceptually simple, were presented in long passages, 
making them time-consuming. They covered string manipulation, aggregate 
functions, nested queries/joins, and date/time extraction. 
’üČ It was conducted on the HackerEarth platform. 
’üČ Time management was essential to this OA. I managed to answer 19 MCQs out 
of 20 and 4 SQL queries out of 5 
46 students were shortlisted for the interview. 
 
Before the interviews started, we were shown a presentation from the Barclays team 
about its history, its presence in India and what this intern role entails. 
Interview process was split into 2 rounds. 
 
 
Round 1: Technical Interview @ CUIC 
’üČ This round started oŲ» with a self-introduction in which I explained my projects 
brie’¼éy and my interests in AI/ML. 
’üČ Then she asked about a project that I had mentioned in my resume and asked 
me to write its schema on paper. She asked several follow up questions 
regarding the schema which I was able to answer. 
’üČ She asked me to write a SQL query to ’¼ünd the second largest table in employee 
table which I did using nested query. 
’üČ She asked how to implement concurrency in MySQL and MongoDB. 
’üČ She asked me to design a URL Shortener, a system design question I wasnŌĆÖt 
prepared for. I explained how IŌĆÖd approach it using the MERN stack, describing 
how shortened URLs would be generated and mapped in the database. 
’üČ She asked how I would solve the shortest path problem and I explained using 
DijkstraŌĆÖs Algorithm and she asked me to write the pseudo code. 
’üČ She asked me how multilevel or multiple inheritance is implemented in Java and 
I explained Java interfaces and their implementations. 
’üČ She then asked me if I had questions and I asked how GenAI being used in 
modern ’¼üntech especially in their company. 
25 students were shortlisted for HR round. 
 
Round 2: HR Round @ CUIC 
’üČ For me, the HR round was longer, and I performed better there than in the 
technical round and the interviewer was friendly so I was able to answer 
comfortably. 
’üČ It started oŲ» with a self-introduction in which I gave an introduction similar to 
what I did in the ’¼ürst round. 
’üČ Then she moved on and asked me about one of my projects and how you would 
handle tight deadlines in it. I answered honestly, sharing my experience working 
under tight deadlines for an NGO project where we had to deliver a prototype 
within a week. 
’üČ She asked how will I react if your plan for a project did not go according to plan 
and something broke before ’¼ünal submission. I answered I would try my best to 
’¼üx it but if I couldnŌĆÖt I would admit something broke in the ’¼ünal moment and ask 
for a small extension 
’üČ She asked, if while working as an intern in a team, after all project details were 
’¼ünalized, I came up with a better implementation for a module, would I approach 
my project manager. I answered yes, I would but would not be discouraged if it 
was rejected because there would be a reason for it and I would learn from it. 
’üČ She asked asked what would you do if you found out your teammate had 
plagiarized his part of a project after ’¼ünal submission. 
’üČ She asked where I would see myself in 5 years and after I answered she asked 
me what about in 10 years and I answered that too. 
’üČ She asked me if there are any questions and I asked what challenges would 
interns face during the internship. 
Out of 25 students, 15 students were ’¼ünalized for Barclays 2026 Summer Internship 
Program. 
 
Contact Info: Feel free to reach out to me for anything. 
Email: sasikiranl0000@gmail.com 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/sasikiranl/ 
 
