 
 
ACCOLITE DIGITAL 
 
 
Accolite is a global IT Services company headquartered in Dallas, USA with offices in India. 
Recognised for providing cutting edge information technology services with a proven track record 
of being totally client focussed, Accolite promises efficient, affordable and on-time IT services. 
The company started their placement process at 11th September 2020 and finished their process at 
12th September 2020.It consists of 5 rounds where the 1st and 2nd round were online rounds that 
took place at the first day and the other 3 rounds were the interview rounds that happened at the 
latter day. 
 
 
Round 1: Aptitude,Technical MCQ(30 Mins): 
 
Online test consisting of 30 MCQs to be solved within 30 mins on the Eduthrill platform. 
Questions were based on the basics of DS, sorting and searching, DBMS,Networks, Computer Ar-
chitecture, and C language. The questions were in the medium level of difficulty. I cleared the first 
round with the ease because I was very well prepared with the basics. 
 
 
Round 2: Coding Round (1 hr): 
 
 
The coding round happened in the Codelyser platform. It consists of two question 
where one was easy and another one was medium. 
1)The first question was that in an given array which has (0s and 1s) we have to find the number of 
1s which are present in between the zeroes. 
2)Rain Drop Problem.(Straightforward). 
 
In this platform ,the tricky part was we had  to enter the test cases to check our results and as 
well as we couldn’t see the test cases that has been passed which was used for evaluation. 
 
It was little bit different to accustom to the platform but I did solve 2 questions  in the matter 
of 20 mins. I did solve it fast because I knew 2 questions already. 
 
Round 3: Technical Interview Round-1: 
 
I got selected for  technical round which happened on the next day morning. The platform 
used for interview was Skype. The duration of the interview was around 1.5 hours. It was the best 
interview that I had ever attended. The interviewer was very much friendly and made me comforta-
ble so that I could answer him in the better manner. At first it was a basic introduction about myself 
and he even wished me that I had a good resume. After that he asked me to explain one of my pro-
jects which he founded to be interesting. 
 
After that he gave me an interesting question which I have not come across. I started to 
solve the question and it became more of a discussion rather than interview. I was asked to code the 
answer and it was screen shared to the interviewer. The way I used the data structure and coding 
style was very much standard. After so many discussion the question was solved by using BFS al-
gorithm. By listening to the question I couldn’t even guess it had to be solved using BFS. The inter-
viewer asked me to send the code to him for recruitment purpose. This was the only one question 
which was asked for the whole interview round. 
 
Round 4: Technical Interview Round-2: 
 
I got the call for the second interview round. It was started in the same manner as before 
round where the interviewer asked me the basic introduction. After that he asked me a basic DBMS 
question. After that he asked me a question in “Trees”. The question was to write a function for Post 
order traversal in recursive manner. After that he asked me to explain the code and dry run it with 
certain test cases. After that he asked me to code the same above question in the iterative manner. I 
had solved that as well. 
 
 
 
Then the interviewer shouted me an another question to solve. This time it was with the giv-
en array and value ‘k’, I had to print the k-rotated array. I had solve it with brute force with 
O(n^2)and then he asked me to give the efficient solution. So I wrote the code with the efficient 
solution. He was happy with that and he directed me to the managerial round. This round took place 
around one hour to finish. 
 
Round 5: Managerial Interview Round: 
 
The Manager introduced himself and asked me to do the same. After that he asked me about 
my aspiration,I gave him some kind of cliche answer. He didn’t accept it so I gave a better one with 
example. He appreciated me for that. He asked me one or two scenario based questions. 
 
After that he asked me to code to find the angle between hour hand and second hand in the 
clock.It was quite tough and so I took my time  and gave him the answer. He accepted it and then 
move with another question which was something with time again. I gave him a solution but it was 
not a efficient one. 
 
Then finishing the coding part, he asked me “What is Denormalisation? Why it has to be 
done”. I told him  the answer which I thought it was right. After that interview is finished. 
Verdict: 
 
I got my result just after finishing my final round. I was glad to hear that I got selected. 
 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
 
 
◆
Data structures 
 
◆
Database management systems 
 
◆
Operating system 
 
◆
Computer Networks 
 
◆
Algorithms 
 
 
Take away: 
 
The things which I got to learn from my placement process are: 
 
1)Be strong with basics. 
 
2)Always practice. 
 
3)Never ever give up. 
 
4)Wear your rejection as a batch. 
 
5)You will get what you deserve. 
 
The final word from my opinion for you juniors,”Don’t ever think that a company doesn’t select 
you meant that you are not deserved,Think that the company that rejects you doesn’t deserve you”. 
 
 
Hope this helps. 
Thank you and All the Best for your placements. 
Name: Sidharth Ganesh R 
Mail id: sidharth12899@gmail.com 
