 
Citi - Intern Interview Experience 
 
About the company  
Citi is a global bank that offers a variety of financial services, 
including banking, credit cards, and investment solutions. It operates in 
more than 160 countries and values innovation, diversity, and teamwork, 
creating an inclusive workplace where employees can grow. Citi’s mission 
is to help people, businesses, and communities achieve their financial 
goals.  
 
Role: Application Developer 
 
Stipend: 75,000 INR per month  
 
Duration of internship: 8-10 weeks 
 
1.Online test (12.10.2025) 
​
The online test is conducted on the codility platform. It has 3 
questions. Among them 2 were easy and 1 was medium difficulty. 
​
 
1.​ Phonebook question - Easy  
●​ Input format 
​
​
{‘Ram’ : ‘123456’,​
​
​
 ‘Sam’ : ‘345689’, 
​
​
 ‘Raju’: ‘8976’ 
} 
●​ Search : ‘456’ 
●​ The task is to find the name whose phone number contains the 
given substring ‘456’. 
●​ If more than one phone number has the given substring we 
have to return the lexicographically smaller name. 
●​ In this case the phone numbers of ‘Ram’ and ‘Sam’ both have 
the given substring ‘456’. So we have to return the 
lexicographically smaller name - ‘Ram’. 
●​  If the input is ‘897’ then the answer will be ‘Raju’. 
●​ For this question they explicitly mentioned that there is no need 
to provide an optimal solution. Correctness is sufficient. 
 
 
 
 
2.​ Minimum number for given Digit Sum - Easy 
●​ Given integer X, find Y. 
●​ 'Y' is the minimum number whose sum of digits is equal to 'X' 
●​ Eg. If X=17, Y=89 
●​ If X=46, Y=199999 
●​ For this question they explicitly mentioned that there is no need 
to provide an optimal solution. Correctness is sufficient. 
 
3.​ Find the maximum round reached by each player - Medium 
●​ We will be given an array ‘skills’ which has the skill level of 
different players. 
●​ The adjacent players will compete in each round. 
●​ The player with the higher skill wins and moves on to the next 
round. 
●​ The process continues until only one winner remains. 
●​ We have to return the maximum round reached by a player. 
●​ Example 
skills = [2,7,6,3] 
Result : max_round =[1,2,2,1] 
●​  For this question they asked for an optimal solution . 
 
2. Technical Interview (30-35 mins) 
           The technical interview was conducted at CUIC on 05/11/2025. There 
were nearly 80 candidates got shortlisted for technical interviews. 
Everyone was randomly assigned to panels. I was called for my first round 
in the afternoon at 2pm. 
I was assigned to a panel of 2 interviewers. Both of them interacted 
with me throughout the interview. They first asked me to introduce myself 
and then they asked about my projects. I have done a realtime website for a 
startup. They were excited about it and asked several questions related to 
that project. 
Then they asked about my  Joint Secretary position at CSEA and 
Events Organizer position at CTF, since I mentioned them in my resume 
and self - Introduction. 
Then they asked about my DBMS project and asked whether I  was 
good at SQL. I said yes. So they asked me to write a Simple SQL Query. 
Then they asked some general questions. Then I was given the 
chance to ask questions to them. I asked about the company's tech stack 
 
 
and AI tools used. At the end they both wished me the best and the first 
round ended on a good note. 
 
Questions related to project  
●​ What are the key features of the project? 
●​ They also asked some questions about specific features. ( This part 
consumed  most of the time in the interview. They asked almost 
everything about the project)  
●​ Why didn't you suggest your client to use pre-established services 
like ‘Justdial’ for e-commerce. Why did you created a website for that 
when Justdial is there? 
●​ What are the challenges you faced while developing this project? 
 
Questions related to JS(CSEA) / Events(CTF) 
●​ What is your responsibility in this position? 
●​ Are you the only one in that role, or are there more people with you? 
●​ Tell about your experience in working as a team. 
●​ The same responsibility question is asked for CTF. 
●​ Asked some general questions about kurukshetra. 
 
Simple SQL Query  
●​ It is a simple query. Basically I was asked to join two tables and 
retrieve the relevant rows.  
 
General Questions 
●​ When you are submitting your code for review, your manager says 
‘Your code is bad’. What will you do now? 
●​ What was your favourite programming language? 
●​ Do you have an idea of going to higher studies? I said no. Then they 
asked why? I expressed my interest in developing real time 
applications. 
●​ Are you ready to relocate to Pune? 
 
3. HR Round (25-30 mins) 
     
I got called for the HR round within 7 minutes after I finished the 
technical round. In this panel there was only one interviewer. She first 
asked me to introduce myself and asked about my family members and my 
hometown. Then she asked about my previous internship experience. Then 
she asked about the flow of my project. I mentioned requirement gathering, 
 
 
Prototyping, Periodic reviews.  
Then she asked how did you gather 
requirements? What are the specific strategies you follow? Tell about any 
specific challenge you faced while developing the project? 
     Why are you interested in joining citi? 
     Do you have an interest in application development? I said yes. Then she 
asked why? 
    Then she asked whether I got any opportunity to work in environments 
that integrate computer networking and application development. I said no 
and explained how networking concepts like protocols helped me to 
quickly grasp the web server communication fundamentals. 
    Consider you are working in a team and someone says ‘no’ to your idea. 
How did you handle that situation? 
    Consider while working as a team you have to say ‘no’ to your teammate’s 
idea. How did you say that? 
     Then she asked Do I have any backlogs? Do any of my relatives work in 
citi? Am I ready to relocate to Pune? And am interested in pursuing higher 
studies?  
      At last, she wished me the best and suggested me to do research on 
networking + application development integrated systems and she told me 
that she worked on such systems and found them interesting. 
 
  After a few hours the results were released and 12 candidates got 
selected for the internship and I was one among them :) 
 
●​ In my experience, most of the questions were asked based on the 
resume  
●​ The interviewers were very friendly and the interview felt like a 
casual conversation. 
●​ The questions asked in the online round were also easy, but the 
submission time played a key role in shortlisting. 
●​ Stay calm and try to be yourself in HR rounds. 
●​ Never lie on your resume. 
●​ Never lose hope. Stay consistent. Keep putting the efforts, it will be 
always rewarded. All the best :) 
 
 
Siva Sanjay S,  
sivasanjaycse@gmail.com, 
CSE, CEG 
 
