SAP Labs – Internship 
 
About the company: 
SAP stands for Systems, Applications & Products in Data Processing. SAP is the largest non-American 
software company by revenue, the world's third-largest publicly traded software company by revenue, 
and the largest German company by market capitalization. SAP Labs India is SAP's largest Research and 
Development centre outside its headquarters in Germany and a part of a connected lab network of 20 
Labs in 17 countries. 
Originally known for leadership in enterprise resource planning (ERP) software, SAP has evolved to 
become a market leader in end-to-end enterprise application software, database, analytics, intelligent 
technologies, and experience management. It is a top cloud company with 200 million users worldwide. 
SAP Labs India drives SAP's product strategy and is responsible for SAP core solutions and provides 
product localization and India specific solutions. t is one of the earliest R&D centres of a global company. 
Coding round: 
Number of questions: 2 
Duration: 45 minutes 
Platform: AMCAT 
Each of us got different questions. Both of my questions were based on string manipulation. I coded 
using C++. The first question was given a sentence which is the set of words searched in a dictionary I 
had to return the words that are to be stored in a dictionary which is basically the count of words 
greater than one. The second question was given a string I had to return the string after removing the 
vowels. 
Around 500 students attended this round out of which 15 students were shortlisted for the next round. 
Technical round 1:  
Duration: 1 hour 
Platform: MS Teams 
I was asked to introduce myself. Then I had to screen share and code on my notepad. The 
question was, given a linked list I had to reverse it and print. Then I had to explain my projects. 
After explaining I got a lot of questions regarding that. Then I was asked to explain about joins. I 
had to write a query for a given situation. Query was based on joins, order by and group by. 
Next, I was asked about OOPs. Then I was given a code and asked to predict the output and 
explain the code based on the OOPs concept. Lastly there were a few DSA questions. 
15 students attended this round and 8 were shortlisted for the next round. 
 
 
Technical round 2:  
Duration: 45 minutes 
Platform: MS Teams 
I was asked to introduce myself. Then I was asked to screen share my notepad and code. The 
question was given a month I had to return the season. I was asked to code the entire program. 
Then I had to explain my projects. I went for my DBMS project. Next, I was asked to explain the 
entire OOPs concept. And there were a few DSA questions about arrays, linked lists, trees and 
graphs. Then I got one debugging question. From Operating Systems Questions were from 
Paging, Segmentation, Fragmentation, Multithreading and Multiprocessing, Threads, Processes, 
Memory Management and Scheduling. Lastly, I was asked a puzzle. 
HR round:  
Duration: 15 min 
Platform: MS Teams 
This round was a casual conversation with the interviewer. I was asked to introduce myself and explain 
the projects. Then I had to narrate my experience with this virtual hiring process. Then I was asked 
which location I would prefer to work and why I would like to work for SAP Labs. Finally, they asked, if I 
had any questions for the interviewer which was asked in all the rounds. 
Out of 8 students, 6 were offered the internship. 
Note: 
• 
The first thing is to answer confidently. Even if you don’t know the exact answer take them 
through your thought process. 
• 
Don’t fake your resume and be clear about what you put in your resume. 
• 
I had to code the full program both in the coding round and in technical interviews. So, make 
sure you are prepared for that. 
• 
Cover all the concepts of DBMS, OOPs, OS and DSA. You can ace the technical interviews. 
• 
When it comes to HR round research about the company, never fail to do that. It would create a 
good impression on the interviewer if you know about the company. 
 
Thank you and all the best!! 
Sreeratcha B 
B.E. CSE (CEG’23) 
 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/sreeratcha-b-5a8026195/ 
ratchabala@gmail.com 
