Citicorp – Intern Interview Experience 
 
About the company  
Citi is a global bank that offers a variety of financial services, including 
banking, credit cards, and investment solutions. It operates in more than 160 
countries and values innovation, diversity, and teamwork, creating an inclusive 
workplace where employees can grow. Citi’s mission is to help people, businesses, 
and communities achieve their financial goals. 
Role: Personal Banking & Wealth Management Technology (PBWMT) 
Stipend: 75,000 INR per month  
Duration of internship: 8-10 weeks 
 
Selection Process : 
 
The Selection process had 3 rounds. 
1. Online test 
2. Technical Interview 
3. HR Interview 
 
1.Online test  
This online test had 4 sections basically. 
 
1st section  -  Numerical and Logical Reasoning 
 
2nd section -  Quantitative aptitude 
 
3rd section -  MCQs on Data Structures and Algorithm 
 
4th section -  Coding round 
 
First section contained questions from permutations and combinations, ratio 
and proportions, distributions, finding odd one out. One of the questions that I 
could recollect is the classic garland problem. It goes like “Number of ways in 
which ‘m’ different flowers can be strung to form a garland so that ‘n’ flowers are 
never separated are? “. 
Second section had questions like evaluating the expression and problems on 
profit and loss, discounts, time and work, speed and distance , LCM and HCF. 
 
The third section aims to test the candidate’s understanding of programming 
concepts and DSA. It included questions on trees, sorting, recursive algorithms, 
memory management, bit manipulation, binary arithmetic, function overloading, 
and pointer manipulation. 
 There were also questions where the output of a code snippet had to be 
selected. Apart from that we had questions with two code snippets and I was 
required to choose the correct conclusion based on both.  
 
Fourth section had 2 coding questions. Both the questions were based on 
string manipulation. They were straightforward and quite easy. This section had a 
40-minute time frame, and we were allowed to switch between the questions as 
needed. Whereas for the first 3 sections, we were given barely 1 minute for each 
question to solve.  
 
In this test, the first three sections were crucial, as solving the aptitude 
questions in 1 minute was very challenging and this played a major role in 
determining our selection for the next round, as almost all candidates were able to 
solve the questions in the fourth section correctly. 
 
 
2. Technical Interview (30.09.2024) 
 
A total of 25 students from CEG and MIT have been shortlisted for technical 
interview. Both HR and Technical interviews were in-person interviews which held 
at CUIC, CEG.   
 
The interviews were conducted across 5-6 rooms, with students being 
randomly assigned to each. Some rooms had a single interviewer, while others had 
two. I was interviewed by a panel of two interviewers. 
 
I entered the room carrying three copies of my resume, as instructed. After 
greeting the interviewers, I handed them my resume. The interview began with the 
interviewers introducing themselves, followed by them asking me to introduce 
myself. 
 I shared my educational journey, starting from my 10th grade to my current 
studies in college. I also highlighted my involvement in various clubs and 
organizations, emphasizing my roles and positions to showcase my leadership and 
teamwork skills. Be prepared with this self-introduction as it makes the first 
impression.  
 
After reviewing my resume, they asked me to explain the DBMS project I 
worked on in my 4th semester. It was an NGO Management project aimed at 
bringing together various NGOs to help people in need. I explained the project in 
detail, including the tech stacks used for frontend and backend development, as 
well as how it benefited the end users. I was also told to describe the structure of 
the database created. 
Since our team was very attached to the project, we named it “PRANAVAM” 
which reflects our motive of love in helping the needy and designed logo too. I 
mentioned this, and they appreciated it. They also asked about any unique or 
special features that set our project apart from others. 
They asked me about SDLC and the process of creating a product. At the 
time of the interview, I was in my 5th semester, and we hadn't yet studied "Software 
Engineering". However, I was familiar with a few basic concepts related to the topic. 
I believe it's good to be honest with the interviewer about not knowing all the 
details and that they may help you. So, I answered these questions based on my 
basic knowledge of the subject. They also asked me about my favourite subject, to 
which I replied DBMS. They then asked if I could write queries for any type of data 
retrieval, and I confidently responded with a yes. 
They asked me how the repetitive task of a person who manually verifies 
data correctness and inserts it into a table could be improved. I explained that 
writing traditional programs can only handle a limited set of predefined conditions, 
which reduces their overall effectiveness for dynamic and complex data validation. 
Therefore, I suggested using machine learning (ML) to automate data validation, 
allowing dynamic checks based on learned patterns before inserting the data into 
tables. Apart from this ,they asked me few questions on OOPS. 
In the end, they asked me what advice I would give to the juniors of my 
college. I told them that, apart from encouraging them to develop their technical 
skills, I would also strongly recommend joining various clubs and associations, as 
college is the most important platform for developing social and networking skills. I 
also asked about their journey with the company.  Finally, I thanked them and 
shook hands. 
 
2. HR Interview (30.09.2024) 
 
From the 25 students who were qualified for technical round, 12 were 
selected for the next round (HR). 
 
It was a one-to-one interview. Since he had a copy of my resume on his 
laptop, I didn’t hand over my resume. He began with his introduction, and then I 
followed with my own introduction. When I mentioned my involvement in a dance 
club, he asked about the style of dance we practice and the number of members in 
the club. I shared details about the events we participated in and the prizes we won. 
 
As I mentioned my participation in track events as an athlete in my resume, 
he asked about my main sport and my time record for the 100-meter sprint, as I 
told him I was a sprinter. He also inquired about the places we travelled to for 
sports meets. He seemed quite impressed by my versatility, being active in different 
fields. 
 
When he encouraged me to ask questions, I inquired about the work culture 
at Citi. He highlighted about various sports and cultural activities within the 
company and shared his involvement in sports.  
Later, he asked me a stress-based question: "What if we don’t hire you?" 
I replied that while I would feel disappointed for some time, I would learn from the 
experience, and start preparing for my next interview. I added that this mindset of 
resilience and adaptability is something my experience in sports has taught me. 
Out of 12 people, 6 were selected for PBWM intern role, and by god’s grace I 
was one among them. 
 
All the best! 
 
S SREENITHIKA (2022-2026) CSE (Q) 
 
Feel free to contact me! 
Email id:  sreenithikas@gmail.com 
Linkedin:  http://www.linkedin.com/in/sreenithikasaravanakumar 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
