Walmart Global Tech Placement Interview Experience 
Role: SDE II 
Number of Rounds: 4 (1 online + 3 offline) 
Job Location: Chennai/Bengaluru 
Job Description: Walmart Global Tech is the technology wing of Walmart 
corporation. You will work on multiple domains like multichannel supply chain to 
complex retail systems in the point of sale, finance, logistics and transportation 
domains. You'll create game-changing solutions / applications using cutting-edge 
technology and streamline process through innovation. We're constantly reinventing 
how we save people's money in our retail stores, online and through their mobile 
devices, and we do it in an unexpected way. Whether you're analyzing data, 
simplifying the supply chain or creating solutions to make this planet more 
sustainable, what you'll be really doing is redefining the customer experience and 
making lives better. You get to work on a wide spectrum of technologies and 
heterogeneous platforms such as Java, Hadoop, Cassandra, ERP, Middleware tools, 
low latency messaging systems, machine learning and open-source frameworks 
 
Online Round:  
Platform: HirePro 
MCQs: 25 MCQs from OS, DBMS and OOPs 
Difficulty Level: Easy 
Coding Questions: 2 coding questions were asked. 
1. A string problem where given a sentence move vowels forward that are 
followed by a consonant. Don’t do anything for vowel followed by vowel, 
or consonant followed by consonant or consonant followed by vowel.  
And remove all spaces and special characters after moving of vowels. 
 
Sample input: "hello world! how are y#ou2" 
Sample output: hlleowrldohworaeyou2 
 
2. Given a list of integers nums, return a list of integers representing the no. 
of the factors of the each of the element in nums. 
Totally 14 candidates were selected for next round. 
 
Technical Round 1 (1hour): 
Difficulty Level: Medium 
I wasn’t asked any DSA questions in this round. The interviewer was very interested in 
my resume, and asked me questions about the skills I had mentioned in my resume. 
Since I had written Java as a skill, I was asked to write a simple API endpoint which 
fetches records from a DB. I was asked about my Internship experience, and what I 
had learnt. Java is not compulsory, but knowing it really helped me through this 
round, as I was asked lot of questions on Java. Answer honestly about your 
experiences as you will be tested on it.  
10 people were shortlisted from this round. 
 
Technical Round 2 (1hour): 
Difficult Level: Medium 
In this round I was asked to solve 3 DSA problems. 
1. Grouping Anagrams: https://leetcode.com/problems/group-
anagrams/description/ 
2. Given a big number, find the max product of k consecutive digits. Return the 
digits. 
Sample input: number = 567893 
 
 
 
K = 3 
Sample output: [7,8,9] 
3. Kth smallest element in a BST: https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-smallest-
element-in-a-bst/description/ 
 
Give the brute-force method first, then give optimized solution. It is done on pen and 
paper, so you just have to explain your solution as the interviewer wants to see how 
you solve problems. And be able to calculate time and space complexities. 
8 people were shortlisted after this round. 
 
HR Round (10-15 minutes): 
In this round I was asked about my projects, and why I chose to do these projects. 
Then I was asked what do I know about Walmart, and why do I want to work at 
Walmart. 
This round is your chance to show the interviewer that you are really passionate 
about technology and explain your projects and your achievements. 
Finally, 5 people were selected. 
 My advice: 
• Have a very good resume, use standard LaTex templates. Select your best 
projects. Include all the skills you have acquired. 
• Knowing Java is not compulsory but will be an advantage. I was asked lots of 
questions on Java, since I had mentioned it as my skill. 
• Be confident and comfortable in your answers. Don’t exaggerate your skills 
and be modest. 
• Showcase all your interests in technology. 
• Be good at DSA and calculating time and space complexities. Give all possible 
solutions you could think of during DSA round, even if its not optimized. You 
can discuss with interviewer about different approaches you could think of, 
and which you think is the best solution. 
Contact Info: 
Phone: 9030269853 
Email: rstharun11@gmail.com 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/tharun-r-s-3b8985229/ 
 
