Citi Services India Pvt Ltd (Citi Bank) – Citicorp 
                                                    - Intern (2026 Batch) 
About the company: 
                               Citigroup Inc., commonly known as Citi, is indeed an American multinational 
investment bank and financial services corporation. Citibank, N.A. is the primary U.S. banking 
subsidiary of Citigroup, a financial services multinational corporation. Citibank was founded in 
1812 as City Bank of New York, and later became First National City Bank of New York. The bank 
has branches in 19 countries. Its headquarters are in New York City. Citi operates globally, 
offering a wide range of financial products and services to individuals, corporations, 
governments, and institutions. In India, Citi has established Citi Solution Centers, which are 
specialized centers focused on technology, processing, analytics, and financial processes. These 
solution centers play a crucial role in supporting Citi's operations and providing various services 
to its customers. 
Role that I chose: ICG (Institutional Client Groups) 
Another Role which was available: Personal Banking & Wealth 
Management Technology (PBWMT) 
Selection Process: 
The selection process consists of three rounds 
1. Online Round 
2. Technical Interview 
3. HR Round  
 
1) Online Round: 
                  
                        You should focus on mastering array-related questions, but learning other 
topics will also be beneficial. I was asked to answer DBMS query-related questions, and 
since I chose the ICG role, I encountered MCQs on React JS and Angular. The difficulty 
level of the questions was generally easy to medium. 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Technical Interview 
                           
                          “Don’t lie on your Resume!!!”. Most of the candidates who got into this 
round were questioned by only one panelist, and their questions were mostly based on 
the projects specified on their resume. If your provided with a problem don’t just provide 
them with your answer, drift your way through your entire thought process on solving it. 
Exceptionally on my case, I was questioned by two panel members and the questions 
were asked from all fields which includes  
 
• Project – Be thorough with your project 
• Data Structures (You can specify the data structure that you are 
confident with) – I chose array, stack, queue, BST, Heap. They asked 
me to reverse a queue using just the queue which can be done 
recursively. And some basic question followed by. 
• React – User Authentication 
• Computer Networks – How responses are handled in case of a query 
and what method will be used in each step, GET & POST 
• Operating System – How is a program compiled on accordance with 
OS, mutex, semaphores, etc…. 
• DBMS – Some queries. 
• OOP – Inheritance, generalization. 
• Recursion 
• Logical Question – There is a section in Geeks For Geeks where you 
can find similar questions. The question that was asked to me was 
“Rabbit can lie on Mon, Tue, Wed. Tortoise can lie on Thurs, Fri ,Sat. 
Today Rabbit says that it lied yesterday. Tortoise replied to that by 
saying ‘So am I!’ What is today?” 
• Basic problem-solving question. 
We were asked to do every solving in a paper, even the user 
authentication using REACT. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3) HR Round:  
                            Gather all available information about the company and thoroughly 
understand the role. Review the job description shared on the CUIC portal. Ensure you're 
well-versed in the details provided during the Pre-Placement Talk. Be ready to answer 
common interview questions confidently, as they'll assess your preparation and planning 
for both short- and long-term career goals. Make sure to communicate your ideas clearly 
and confidently. 
 
 
 
Name       : Thyagesan P 
Roll no     : 2022103511 
Phone no : 9487349554 
Email        : thyagesanprasath@gmail.com 
Linkedin   : Thyagesan Prasath. 
