 
 
 
 
 
BNY MELLON 
Round 1: Coding Round 
 
1. Array based question  
2. Find length of longest subsequence of one string which is substring of another string 
3. String based question 
4. House price prediction using interpolation and extrapolation  
 
Round 2: Technical Interview 1 
 
1. Project discussion 
2. Questions on Random forest, linear regresssion and svm 
3. Questions on heap and its types 
4. Pseudocode for Heapify and insertion in heap 
5. Questions on JDBC 
 
Round 3: Technical Interview 2 
 
1. Difference between Unsupervised and reinforcement learning 
2. Questions on supervised and unsupervised learning.  
3. How would you design a self driving car? (How would you train the model? What algorithms 
will you use? Make necessary assumptions) 
4. String based coding question ( Got the same question from coding round. Told the interviewer 
that I solved this question in coding round. The interviewer gave a different question) 
5. Questions on REST and status codes. ( Asked about 403 vs 501) 
6. Find the most frequent element in a stream of numbers ( Asked about the different data structures 
that can be used) 
7. Why manhole cover is circular? 
8. Project discussion.  
 
Round 4:Technical and Managerial Round: 
 
1. Asked about internship 
2. I have also worked on High performance computing during 5th sem holidays. Had a discussion on 
the same. Questions on inter processor communication(not inter process), simulation tools used  
3. Explain Fork system call.  
4. Questions on sockets and socket programming. 
5. Socket vs file. What is the difference between them? 
6. Can you write socket programs using files? 
7. Name any 4 system calls other than those related to file and socket 
8. No of processes created in a program having fork inside a for loop. 
9. Fread vs read. 
10. General behavioural questions, hobbies 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
◆ Data structures 
◆ Algorithms 
◆ Operating system 
◆ Projects and the concepts used in them 
 
Name: Udhaya Prasath M 
Mail id: mudhayaprasath1@gmail.com 
