Barclays 
Barclays is a British multinational investment bank and financial services company. Barclays is 
organized into four core businesses: personal banking, corporate banking, wealth management, 
and investment management. Barclays Global Service Centre (BGSC), India is a global 
capability center, supporting Barclays businesses worldwide, delivering innovative end-to-end 
business solutions in Technology, Operations and Functions. 
Hiring Role: Analyst 
The hiring process is divided into 3 Rounds. 
 Online Test 
 Technical +Managerial Round 
 HR Round 
Online Test: 
Duration: 1hr 30mins 
It consists of 30Mcq and 2 Coding Questions. 
It was conducted on Cocubes Platform. The MCQs had most of the weightage and topics were 
on C, C++, OOPS, Database Management Systems, Computer Networks and Operating System. 
Mostly theory questions and some output prediction question. The questions were easy to 
moderate level. 
The 2 Coding questions are: 
1) Array Based: Given an array, for example arr = [“apple”, “orange”,” apple”, “orange”, 
“grapes”] we have to print “yes” for repeated elements and “No” for non-repeated 
elements in the array. 
2) String Based: Given a string, we have to count the numbers and characters in the string. 
Both the coding questions are straightforward and is not time-consuming. 
Most of them have solved both the coding question. So, the MCQ part was the decision maker. 
Nearly 200 students appeared for the online test and 30 got shortlisted for the next round.   
Technical + Managerial Round: 
Duration: 30 mins. 
First 15 minutes for technical question and last 15 minutes for managerial question. 
It was held on office premises. We were asked to report to the company for the interview 
process.  
The interviewer had my resume and asked me the typical “tell me something about yourself”. 
Then he started asking some technical questions: 
1) Questions related to my projects which I mentioned in my resume. He asked about the 
technologies I used in it and what are the challenges I faced during the project phase. 
2) Question related to data structures and algorithms. I was given a problem and asked to 
solve it using any of the data structure with less time and space complexity. 
Then he started asking some managerial questions: 
1) Scenario Based Questions: Given a scenario like you have a dispute with your project 
mate for an idea proposal. How will you convince him to accept your idea? 
2) Behavioral Based Questions:  Given a situation how will you think and react? 
HR Round: 
Duration: 15mins 
First and Foremost, you have to know the Barclays values- RISES. The other interview 
questions were: 
1) Tell me about yourself? 
2) Why Barclays? 
3) Give some example where will you use Barclays values in Real life? 
Tips from my side: 
 Do a good research about the company and its latest news. 
 Be honest with your resume and thorough with the projects you have mentioned. 
 Always have a question at the end to ask the interviewer. 
 Be prepared with some Basic HR questions beforehand. 
Hope this helps. 
Thank you and All the Best. 
Vignesh S 
vigneshhegvins2000@gmail.com 
  
 
