Accolite  
 
It consists of 5 rounds. 
Round 1: Aptitude round 
 
There were aptitude questions based on Operating Systems, Computer 
Networks, Database Management Systems, Quantitative Aptitude, Logical reasoning. A 
mix up of all these aptitudes rounding to 30 questions. This test was held on EduThrill 
platform and the total time given was around 30-40 minutes. You really need to be very 
quick in solving those quantitative aptitude which will boost your time to analyze the 
technical aptitude questions. Most of the students except a few were selected for the 
next coding round. You need to answer a reasonably correct number of questions to get 
selected to the next round. 
 
 
Round 2: Coding round 
 
In this round, 2 coding questions were asked and both of them were very easy 
ones. With a little bit of practice one could solve them both in 5-10 minutes. I would 
highly recommend to practice coding in Hackerrank platform for beginners and Geeks 
for geeks and Code-chef platform for intermediates and advanced level coders. Try 
completing the must do interview questions available in Geeks for geeks well ahead of 
the placement season. The below are the questions asked 
1. Trapping rain water  
(https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/trapping-rain-water/) 
2. Happy arrays 
(https://codechef.com/problems/HAPPYARR (Not a same question but similar to this)) 
 
Mainly the Coding round was fully focused on solving real time problems and it 
was held on Codelyzer platform. Candidates can use any language of their choice for 
solving the coding questions. Since the questions were easy many were able to solve 
them both, hence the selection criteria were based on space and time complexity and 
also the time taken by the candidate to solve the problems. The candidates selected for 
the face to face interviews were announced 2 hours post the coding round. Around 80 
were shortlisted for the next round. All the face to face interviews were held over skype. 
 
 
Round 3: Technical interview 
The interview began with formal greetings. She then asked me to introduce myself and 
had a casual talk with me to make me feel comfortable. The following questions were 
asked 
 
1. The task is to divide an array into K non-empty subsets such that the sum of 
elements in every subset is same. All elements of this array should be part of 
exactly one partition. 
 
2. The task is to find if there is a triplet in an array whose sum is equal to the given 
value. 
 
3. The task is to split the given array into K subarrays (they must cover all the 
elements). The maximum subarray sum achievable out of K subarrays formed, 
must be minimum possible. Find that possible subarray sum. 
 
4. She then tested my knowledge on binary trees by asking about the different kind 
of traversals like inorder, postorder, preorder, level order and asked me the 
difference between then with an example. 
 
The below are some links which will help you to solve those questions. 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/partition-set-k-subsets-equal-sum/ 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/split-the-given-array-into-k-sub-arrays-such-that-
maximum-sum-of-all-sub-arrays-is-minimum/ 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-a-triplet-that-sum-to-a-given-value/ 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/tree-traversals-inorder-preorder-and-postorder/ 
 
WHAT I SUGGEST TO YOU FROM THIS ROUND : 
 Give a strong introduction about yourself since that is the first impression about 
you to the interviewer. 
 Take some time to analyze the problem. Break the entire problems into sub 
problems and try solving the sub problems to arrive at your answers. 
 Discuss your approach with your interviewer and make them involved in your 
approach. 
 Try cracking those corner cases first to impress your interviewer. 
 
Many were unable to crack this round due to its level of hardness but luckily I was on 
the other side. The next interview was held after 15 minutes post completion of this 
round. 
 
Round 4: Technical interview 
 
The interviewer asked me to introduce myself and I was asked questions on my 
resume. We had a long chat on my summer research intern project and then the 
interview began. 
1. Given a Binary Tree, convert it to a Doubly Linked List. The left and right pointers 
in nodes are to be used as previous and next pointers respectively in converted 
DLL. The order of nodes in DLL must be same as inorder of the given Binary 
Tree. The first node of inorder traversal (left most node in BT) must be head 
node of the DLL. 
 
Note: To be very honest, I became nervous on seeing this question but I 
didn’t give up and started to suggest some approaches. The interviewer 
then found that I was not so comfortable with this question and gave me 
another question. 
2. Find Maximum Length of a sub-string without any repetitions. 
- 
For “ABDEFGABEF”, the longest substring are “BDEFGA” and 
“DEFGAB”, with length 6. 
- 
For “BBBB” the longest substring is “B”, with length 1. 
 
3. Given a string s1 and a string s2, write a snippet to say whether s2 is a rotation 
of s1? 
(eg given s1 = ABCD and s2 = CDAB, return true, given s1 = ABCD, and s2 = 
ACBD , return false) 
 
4. Reverse a linked list in groups of given sizes 
5. A puzzle to test my problem solving capability   
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/puzzle-1000-light-bulbs-switched-on-off-by-1000-
persons-passing-by/ (not the exact one but with some modification in the 
numbers)  
 
WHAT I SUGGEST TO YOU FROM THIS ROUND : 
 Be honest with the interviewer if you are asked whether you find it difficult or not , 
be honest with him but suggest some approaches to express your “never give 
up” attitude. 
 Always try to optimize your solutions if you are asked to. Have good knowledge 
of the time and space complexities. 
 Practice a lot of puzzles and riddles as solving them show off your problem 
solving skills.  
 Always discuss your approach with the interviewer as he/she may give some 
hints to optimize your approach, never keep your interviewer idle. 
At the end of this round, the interviewer was very much impressed with my performance 
and he connected the call to his manager immediately for my HR round. 
  
Round 5: HR interview 
 
The manager asked me to introduce myself and started testing my 
communication and thinking out-the-box skills. He asked me about the Covid-19 impact 
on Tamil Nadu and questioned me on the effectiveness of the measures taken by the 
Government during this pandemic and also asked me to suggest some measures if I 
were given the authority. Then we had a chat about Indian railways giving free Wifi 
access to its passengers (good/bad/what else could be done), climate in my area of 
residence and so on. 
 
Later he questioned me on aptitudes regarding Distance/Speed and 
Time/Clocks. He even gave me two problems to solve on finding the angle between 
minute and hour hand. Later he was very satisfied and appreciated me for my 
performance. 
Finally 11 of them were selected and I got my name on that list. :) 
 
 
WHAT I SUGGEST TO YOU FROM THIS ROUND : 
 Be prepared with quantitative aptitudes as it can even help you in your HR round 
as it did in my case. I would suggest websites like Indiabix, Freshers world etc. 
 
 Even though I was not asked any formal HR questions like 1. Why should I hire 
you? 2.What are your strengths and weakness , be prepared to answer them as 
well as banking and investment sectors which are on for placements would ask 
them for sure. 
 
Topics to be focused: 
1. Data structures & Algorithms. 
2. Competitive coding/Problem solving. 
3. Object Oriented Programming Language for implementation in the interview. 
(C++/JAVA is mostly preferred by the interviewers) 
4. Projects mentioned in your resume. 
5. Aptitude (Verbal/Reasoning/Quantitative) 
6. Communication (Be prepared with your answers for famous HR questions) 
 
ALL THE BEST!!! 
 
For any further assistance or more details contact me on my mail id. 
Name: Vijayakumar R 
Mail id: rvijayakumar512@gmail.com 
 
