Citi – Intern Interview Experience 
 
 
About the company 
Citi is a global bank that offers a variety of financial services, including 
banking, credit cards, and investment solutions. It operates in more than 160 
countries and values innovation, diversity, and teamwork, creating an inclusive 
workplace where employees can grow. Citi’s mission is to help people, businesses, 
and communities achieve their financial goals. 
Role: Application Developer (App Dev) 
Stipend: 75,000 INR per month 
Duration of internship: 8-10 weeks 
 
 
Selection Process : 
The Selection process had 3 rounds. 
1. Online test 
2. Technical Interview 
3. HR Interview 
 
1. Online test (12.10.25) 
This online test had coding basically. 
1st question - Temperature_Check 
2nd question - Shortest_Unique_Substring 
3rd question - Largest_Square 
 
The first question was very simple. We can solve it just by using a switch 
statement. The problem was like the user gives a temperature value , we have to 
determine the range of it and return the comments given as per the question. 
 
The second question was simple. It was similar to the problem 
Shortest_Unique_Substring. 
 
 
The third question was like creating  a algorithm for the given question 
which was in medium difficulty . I could not remember the question exactly . 
 
 
As the test was in online, completion time was one of the factor for getting 
shortlisted for the interview .
 
 
 
2. Technical Interview (05.11.2025) 
A total of 82 students from CEG and MIT was shortlisted for technical 
interview. Both HR and Technical interviews were in-person interviews which held 
at CUIC, CEG. 
The interviews were conducted in the Auditorium of CUIC, with students being 
randomly assigned to each panel. All panels had a two interviewers. Randomly, I was 
assigned to the most difficult panel. 
After greeting the interviewers, I handed them my resume. The interview 
began with the interviewers introducing themselves, followed by them asking me to 
introduce myself. 
Be prepared with the self-introduction as it makes the first impression. I 
started off with the self-intro as instructed. As I had mentioned about my extra-
curricular activites explicitly. We had a conversation about my cricketing journey for 
2-3 minutes. 
After reviewing my resume, they told me that they weren’t interested about 
the projects that I had put on my resume as all the people who attended the 
interview was having similar kind of projects using MERN stack, DBMS etc…. So, they 
told me that they are moving to the fundamentals of CS(OS, OOPS, DBMS, Networks 
and  Data Communication), and about programming languages  mainly JAVA. 
He first started asking questions about JAVA 
• 
What is JVM? 
• 
Difference between JVM and JRE. 
• 
How does the complier compile the .java file ? and he asked me to explain the 
flow of control. 
• 
What compiler is used in JAVA? 
Then he moved onto DBMS where the questions were 
• 
He gave me a description about the table schema and I had to create a table 
for the description which he gave and write it down on a paper. After writing 
he checked it. 
• 
He asked me to create an index for a column in that table and asked me to 
write it down. 
Then the interviewer moved onto OS 
• 
He asked me about the concepts of OS and I explained him about the concept. 
• 
He asked me whether I am familiar with Linux OS. 
• 
He asked me to explain some Linux commands using an example with its 
usage 
 
 
Then he moved onto OOPS 
• 
He asked me about Polymorphism . 
• 
I was asked to write the code for Static polymorphism and he checked it. 
• 
Then he asked me to explain Run-time polymorphism. 
• 
In inheritance he asked me a question stating that “Class A has a numerous 
methods. Class B is inherited from Class A. Now I have to access the class A’s 
method using the object of class B. Is it possible?”. And he asked me to write 
the code of that particular line. 
Then he moved onto Full Stack 
• 
What is frontend and backend? 
• 
How to frontend and backend communicate with each other? And I was asked 
to write the code on the paper and explain him. 
• 
He gave me a situation that, “The API from frontend transmit the data to the 
backend and the API that should catch it is down. What would happen?”. I 
replied him and the asked “What kind of error type and number ?“. I answered 
the question and he asked “Why not 404?”. I explained him and he gave many 
code asked me find out where it is used. 
The second interviewer was listening to me till then and he asked a 
question about the working of MySQL in the backend like how does the query  
“Select  * from “ takes the records from the table and what data structure is 
during the retrieval process of the query. He asked me to try and explain it. I told 
my approach using trees(B trees) and he asked me “why not graph ?”. So I 
changed my approach using the Graph using BFS and DFS. Then I was asked to 
explain about the BFS process. 
Finally, both the interviewers were satisfied my answers and they gave me 
a chance to ask them questions. 
The first round (Technical round) got over. It was around 1 hr. 
Everything depends upon the interviewer. Some interviewers asks less 
questions. While some of the interviewers go in depth about your project and the 
fundamentals. So be prepared for both. 
 
2. HR Interview (05.10.2024) 
From the 82 students who were qualified for technical round, 30 were 
selected for the next round (HR). 
It was a one-to-one interview. Since she had a copy of my resume on her 
hand, I didn’t hand over my resume. She began with her introduction, and then I 
followed with my own introduction. When I mentioned my extra-curricular 
activities, she was impressed with it and I also added my 12th mark which 
impressed her more. 
I was asked questions such as “Where do you see yourself in 5 years? “,then 
she enquired about my parents details, my CGPA, any current backlogs, some family 
details and whether I had any idea of higher studies. 
She asked me if I had any questions. With this the HR round of interview 
came to an end. This round lasted for about 10 minutes. 
Out of 30 people, 12 were selected for App dev intern role, and by god’s grace 
I was one among them. 
 
 
All the best! 
 
 
VIKRAM DHARSAN K S (2023-2027) 
 
 
Feel free to contact me! 
Phone no : +91-7200591620 
Email id: vdks2006@gmail.com 
LinkedIn: Vikram Dharsan K S LinkedIn 
