 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BARCLAYS 
 
 
Barclays is a British multinational investment bank and financial services company. Apart 
from investment banking, Barclays organises personal banking, corporate banking, wealth 
management, and investment management. 
 
Placement process consists of: 
 
Round 1: Technical and coding 
 
 
In this round there are 25 mcq’s based on web programming, basics of C, C++, java. Each 
mcq is of 3 marks and there are 2 coding questions. (where 1 is easy and 1 is medium). 
 
 
In first coding question I have passed all testcases where as in second one 11/20 are passed. 
Fortunately, I had shortlisted for other rounds. 
 
Round 2:  
 
In round 2 comprises of both technical and HR  
 
Technical Round:  
 
 
      In this round, The interviewer asked to introduce myself. Then he moved to my current working 
projects he asked some questions like why you select this project, what is the use of this project to 
our society. Then, He asked me basics questions like what is static functions, variables, C 
preprocessors, macros and dangling pointers. DBMS concepts like Normalization, joins, ACID 
properties. OOPS concepts, About Sorting’s, among the all sorting’s which sorting is best and why, 
Time complexities of sorting algorithm, what are linked  lists, how to insert and delete in linked 
list , their time and space complexities and others. 
 
 
HR: 
      
       HR is only for 15 minutes. He asked me some questions like  
  
1. Why Barclays? 
2. How you are helping society in pandemic situation? 
3. What is last book you have studied? 
4. Main leads of the book, Genre of book? 
5. What have you learned from that characters? which is your favourite character and 
why? 
6. Do you have git account? 
 
         These were questions asked me in the Interview. The interview was around 45 minutes.  
 
 
 
 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
 
 Web programming (online test) 
 Database Management 
 Data structures 
 
Take away: 
 
 
Have a grip on basic concepts. Don’t lose confidence. 
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Vinisha K 
Vinisha1502@gmail.com 
