ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND (RBS) 
 
 The RBS Group is a large international banking and financial services company. The Group 
provides a comprehensive range of financial services to retail, corporate, and financial 
institutions. 
Placement Process: 
 
The applicants were filtered based on CGPA and then the placement procedure took place in 
two rounds. The first online test round and an online face-to-face interview round. 
 
Round 1: Aptitude, Verbal, Technical Round: 
First round was for 2 hours on Mettl tests platform. It consisted of MCQs and 3 coding 
questions. 
MCQ Questions were based on Quantitative aptitude (profit loss, probability etc.), Logical 
Reasoning (directions, blood relations etc.), Verbal Aptitude (language related questions like 
synonyms, antonyms and comprehension type) and Technical Questions (mostly related to 
DBMS, OS and data structures). The coding questions were array-based.  
After completing the first round, the toppers were selected for the second interview round. 
 
Round 2: Technical and HR Round: 
This round consists of 2 panels (Technical and HR) 
Technical Questions: 
1. Introduce yourself. 
2. What are the subjects you are familiar with and which are you most comfortable? 
I chose Database Management Systems, so most of the questions were based on 
DBMS. 
3. What is Normalization? 
4. What is 2NF and explain with an example used in your project. 
5. What is a trigger and have you used it in your project? What are the types of triggers? 
6. What is a stored procedure? What are the advantages/disadvantages of using a stored 
procedure rather than executing as individual queries separately? 
7. What are some methods to improve the speed of execution of database queries? 
(Indexing etc.) 
 
 
 
Project Related questions: 
 
I had mentioned 3 projects in my resume and they chose two and asked to explain 
them in detail. 
The asked the following questions about the android app I had developed. 
1. What version of Android is your app compatible with? Why did you choose that 
version?  
2. What language is it developed in and what tools have you used? 
3. Did you have any way for clearing up the data to free up space once the data is not 
needed? (housekeeping) 
4. What is the difference between your application and the already existing ones? 
5. Have you released the application on the play store?  
HR Questions: 
1. What is good teamwork according to you? What are the characteristics of a good 
team? 
2. What is your aim? 
3. What do you know about RBS from PPT and what do you think you'll be working on? 
4. How do you keep yourself updated about technology? 
5. If people in your team listen to your idea, but do not implement it, how will you 
react? 
6. What is your favourite domain? What will you do if you get a project in a domain that 
you are not interested in? 
These were the questions asked to me. I had not answered 1-2 questions with clarity but 
overall it was a good experience.  
Topics to be focussed: 
 Database Management Systems 
 Data Structures and Algorithms 
 Operating Systems 
 
Takeaway: 
Having a good knowledge of the basics of DBMS, OS and Data structures, having clear idea 
about everything mentioned in the resume and confidence and clarity to answer the HR 
questions will help to get placed in RBS. 
Thank you. All the Best. 
 
 
Vishnooprya M 
vishnoopriya11@gmail.com 
