VISVESSWAR A M - COMPUTER SCIENCE AND
ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
Technology Development Program Associate at Optum
About the Company:
Optum, part of the UnitedHealth Group family of businesses, is a leading
information and technology-enabled health services company, serving
more than 132 million consumers and delivering the right care when and
how it’s needed. Optum is dedicated in evolving healthcare so everyone
can have the opportunity to live their healthiest life.
About the Role:
The Technology Development Program (TDP) at Optum is an entry point
into the world of health technology, providing recent graduates the
opportunity to gain hands-on experience in developing, implementing,
and
supporting
advanced
technological
solutions
that
improve
healthcare services. As a Software Engineering Associate within TDP,
you’ll contribute to projects across multiple domains, including artificial
intelligence, data analytics, and application development, all while
supporting the modernization of healthcare.
Overview of the Process:
The selection process consisted of three stages:
1. Online Test - Involved completing 4 tiers of tasks in Web
Development with Tech Stack of our choice from the provided options.
An AI-Chat assisstant was also provided which we could make use of
when needed.
2. HR Interview- A brief interview involving questions based on personal
experiences and interest in Optum.
3. Technical Interview - Technical skills and project experience
mentioned in the Resume were discussed in depth and also included a
few Behavioural questions.
About 27 students were shortlisted for the In-person Interview process
held in CUIC.
HR Interview:
She Introduced herself.
Started with info about my nativity and experience so far in clg life.
Asked about extra curriculars in addition to academic.
Explained my interest in chess.
Asked any achievements in chess and asked why not continue it , or take
it more seriously to which I answered that I focused more on academics.
Following it she Asked how I would manage multiple tasks when such a
situation arises.
Asked about happy and sad memories across the years spent in college.
Since I mentioned about being part of club, I was asked about overview
of activities in the club, about the interactions with juniors
Why did you choose Computer Science in High school and why CSE in
CEG, why not IT?
Ended with questions from my side.
Technical Interview:
It started with self introduction.
Followed by questions on Java basics and OOPS .
Difference between class, abstract class, and interface.
Explain polymorphism and how run time polymorphism works.
Then the topic shifted to React.js
I was asked about virtual DOM, Single Page Application (SPA).
Why use react and not html+js for dynamic web page?
What happens when we build a project? What does the build folder
contain?
How many HTML files are there in react, how does this html file work in
react ( it's role - root div )?
He also asked about the need of backend when we can access databases
directly from frontend.
Then he asked about APIs, how it works,
Followed by what is RESTApi? After answering these questions, he gave
me an DSA question.
The question was to find second largest element in an array. I was asked
to write down my code in java since I picked it earlier as my goto
language.
After traversing the input array for my code, he pointed out incorrect
logic for some case, and after corrections I completed the optimal code
and he was happy to move on.
Asked about the different joins and then about the foreign key
constraints.
He asked whether I had knowledge about cloud services like AWS, azure
etc...
Explain - SAAS, PAAS, IAAS.
At the end he asked me some behavioural questions -
Your strongest tech skill,
How did you manage a situation of difficulty when working in team?,
How do you learn new technologies ?,
How will you adapt to latest technologies?,
Why Optum?,
Asked me if I had any questions to him.
The interview ended with few questions from my side, the interviewer
took time to explain the questions even as the lunch time had passed.
Result:
A total of 9 students were selected for the TDP Associate role at Optum.
Tips:
Start the preparations early and focus on preparing for both DSA as
well as Core subjects ( DBMS, OS, Computer Networks).
I followed strivers-sde-sheet for the preparation. You can also make
use of the resources provided by ACM CODE.
Focus on understanding the concepts and practise pattern-specific
questions on online coding platforms like Leetcode, GFG or any other
platform of your choice.
Be consistent in the preparation journey.
Do research about the company prior to the interviews and prepare
questions to ask the interviewer.
Be honest in your Resume and have a good and deep understanding
on mentioned technical skills.
Be confident with the answers and answer ‘No’ when questioned on
unknown topics.
Contact: visvesswaram@gmail.com
