Interview Experience

Name: Divya Dharshini B
Reg No: 2018115027
Mail ID: diyabalakrishnan2001@gmail.com
Company: Accenture

Accenture-AEH’22 Hiring consists of 3 stages.
Role- Advanced Application Engineering Analyst.
CTC-  9.9 LPA (8 Lacs Fixed).

Stage 1:
Stage 1 consists of two sections - Cognitive and Technical assessment
followed by a Coding assessment.

Cognitive and Technical assessment:
Duration: 90 minutes
Sections: English ability, Critical Reasoning and Problem-solving, Abstract
reasoning, Pseudo Code, Networking Security and cloud, and at last common
applications and ms office.
Totally there were 6 sections and 90 questions in total.

Note: This is an elimination round so try to attend all the sections as much as
possible. Time won’t be enough to answer all the questions but try to complete
them because most of the time they consider sectional cut-offs.

Only shortlisted students from this round can able to attend the Coding
assessment.

Coding assessment:
Duration: 45 minutes
The number of questions: 2
Difficulty level: Easy, Medium.

Questions:

1. Given an array, print the elements in the given range.
2. Given two linked lists, merge them according to the conditions given

below:

i) First part of the result linked lists consists of even nodes of 1st

linked list.

ii) Second part consists of odd nodes of 2nd linked lists.
iii) Third part consists of even nodes of 2nd linked list.
iv) Fourth part consists of odd nodes of 1st linked list.

Note: I solved both the problems and all the test cases were passed. But
people who have solved one question completely and the other question
partially also cleared this round and were shortlisted for the next stage.

Stage 2:
Communicative assessment:
This assessment is a non-elimination round. An online test to assess your
communication skills like the pronunciation of words, listening ability,
vocabulary and fluency in English. The difficulty level increases with time but
not too hard.

Stage 3:
Virtual interview:
After the completion of the previous stage, we received mail about this
interview after two days. We were asked to block our slot according to our
convenience. It was a 30 minutes interview. The interviewer asked the
following questions:

1. Tell me about yourself.
2. What is the difference between IT and Computer science?
3. Explain each of the projects mentioned in your resume briefly.
4. While I was explaining the technologies behind each of my projects, he

interrupted me asked whether I was unsuccessful in any of the
situations during the development of the project and regained
confidence and become successful.

5. Then he asked me whether I have attended interviews before that.
6. Finally, after a couple of general HR questions, the interviewer asked
whether I have any questions for him and I asked ‘What is the most
important skill that you are expecting from our side for this role?’, he
replied me with ‘We just need humans’. We smiled at each other and
left the meeting.

Note: The questions asked in the interview is completely based on the
interviewer because I wasn’t asked technical questions but focused mainly on
my confidence level and passion but many people have been asked technical
concepts that they have mentioned in their resume.

Smiling and being confident about yourself would mean a lot.

