Name:  Prasitaa Kannadasan

Batch: 2022 – 2026

Role: Product Engineer

ABOUT THE COMPANY:

Appian is a product-based software company that creates and automates business processes with its
low-code platform. There are two types of developers: high code developers who construct the
Appian platform (Software Engineers) and low code developers who automate business processes
with the low code platform (Product Engineers). Their offices are located in 18 countries throughout
the world, including the one in India's OMR World Trade Centre in Chennai.

ABOUT THE ROLE:

I was recruited as a Product Engineer. It involves building and automating business processes using
the Appian platform. You must be proficient in the core subjects like OOPS, DSA and DBMS. You must
also have a compelling and genuine resume. Impressive projects are undoubtedly beneficial,
especially if they demonstrate your ability to adapt and learn quickly.

PLACEMENT EXPERIENCE:

ONLINE ASSESSMENT:

We had 4 coding questions for the role of Product Engineer which were based on DSA.

TECHNICAL ROUND 1:

All three rounds of interview were in offline mode at CUIC. This round lasted for almost 40 minutes. I
was asked to explain one of my projects in detail. I was also given an OOPS question in which I was
required to check for all edge cases for a specific function and write the code for them. I was also
questioned on a subject of my choice. Additional questions about my resume and achievements
were also asked.

BEHAVIOURAL ROUND – 1:

This round was a virtual one and it lasted for 10 minutes. I was asked to introduce myself and was
questioned about the company and the job role. I was also asked of my plans for any further studies
in the future.

BEHAVIOURAL ROUND – 2:

This was the final round and it lasted for around 15 minutes. Personal questions regarding my family,
academics, and residence were posed. In addition, several questions about my resume were asked.

TIPS:

  Make your answers elaborative and interactive.


Impressive projects are definitely beneficial and explain your projects in a way that impresses
the interviewer and feel free to use a pen and a paper for clarity.

  Ensure that your resume is compelling, authentic and genuine.
  Get to know about the company and the role before appearing for the interview.
  Focus on core subjects like OOPS, DBMS and DSA and prepare yourself for basic HR

questions.

  At the end of the interview, you’ll be prompted for further questions from your side. Make

sure to have some real and impressive questions that will demonstrate your true interest and
help you stand out.

