Athenahealth Interview Experience

Intern + FTE (Based on Performance)

-  Deepak Chandhru N (2022115112)

About Athenahealth:

At athenahealth we’re using technology to transform the
way our friends and family get medical care and how doctors
treat patients. We bring cloud-based web and mobile software
to the healthcare industry to build an information backbone
with the power to transform health delivery.

      AthenaOne is athenahealth’s integrated EHR (Electronic
Health Records), medical billing & practice management, and
patient engagement solution that leverages AI to transform
your performance.

About the Role:

Role: Product Engineering

We’re looking for developers who want to work on challenging
technology problems to create products that medical
professionals and patients use every day.

We work with a mix of technologies, but don’t hire developers
based on particular coding language.

• We're more interested in folks with raw talent and a burning
desire to succeed. The most important requirement for

applying is a passion to learn and to make a difference
developing enabling technologies.

• Ability to learn and adapt quickly

• Experience reading and writing code in a programming
language

• Experience working collaboratively towards project goals and
deadlines

• Computer Science (CS) or relevant technical degree program
is a plus, though we will consider non-traditional, non-CS
degreed applicants.

Selection Process:

Day 1:

1. Online Assessment (In Offline Mode)

2. Technical Round

3. Technical + Managerial Round

Day 2:

4. HR Round

Round 1: Online Assessment

[1 hr 30 mins]

Online Assessment was conducted at CUIC in hacker rank
under the monitoring of company staffs. The online assessment
had 3 parts

i)  MCQ question on OOPS – 2
ii)  MCQ question on Data Structure – 5
iii)  Coding Question – 2

1) Minimum Number of swaps required to make the
valid parenthesis.

https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-
swaps-to-make-the-string-balanced

2) Lexicographically Smallest Palindrome - LeetCode

From the online assessment, 34 of us has shortlisted

for interview. The online test was conducted in morning.
The Interview process started in the afternoon of the
same day.

If the online assessment was conducted in CUIC,

don’t wait for optimal approach. Try to pass all the
provided testcases with even brute-force approach and try
to finish faster.

Round 2: Technical Interview

[50 - 60 mins]

The interview started with introduction. Then he told me to
explain about the project I have mentioned in my resume.

Project (Tech Stack) based Questions:

1. What is use-Effect in React?

2. Which type of React components (Class component or
Function Component) is used in my project?

3. What is redux?

4. What is bi-LSTM?

DBMS:

1. What are the normalisation forms?

2. What is indexing? What are the types of Indexing?

3. A SQL query: Return the book title and the number of times
each book is borrowed.
* Book (ID, title)

* Reader (ID, name)

* Borrow (BookId, ReaderId)

OOPS, DSA:

1. Explain the 4 pillars of OOPS in C++? (Since, I mentioned I
am using C++ for DSA in my intro)

2. Application of stack

3. What is linked list?

4. Simulation of Quick sort for the given array.

Coding:

1. Moving zeros to the end of array.

Eg: [4,0,2,0,8,5] -> [4,2,8,5,0,0]

2. Find the index where the left and right subarray product will
be equal.

Eg: [2,3,4,8,6,4].
Output: 3 (left: [2*3*4] = right: [6 * 4])

Then the interviewer asked, do you have any questions. I have
asked about his work experience in AthenaHealth. He explained
about his past project works and also the project and tech
stack that the company was currently working on.

Round 3: Managerial Round

[45 - 50 mins]

This round was a little tricky one. In this round, the interview
was purely based on the resume. He almost asked questions
from each and every section in the resume. So, be clear about
the details you have mentioned in your resume. He also asked,

1. What do you know about the company?

I told the company project details explained by my previous
round interviewer.

2. What are the past interviews you have attended? Why

you are rejected in those interviews?

I have acknowledged the mistakes I have done during one
of my interviews and what I have done to correct my mistakes.
[You should not be harsh on company. Try to acknowledge your
mistakes and also explain how you overcome it, in a polite
way]

3. Which programming language you will prefer? Python

or Java?
      I have answered python.

       4. What is GenAI? [Since the python team is working on
GenAI and OCR based EHR product]

The interview lasted for nearly 50 minutes.

Round 4: HR Interview

[20 mins]

1. Tell me about yourself
2. Explain any one of your projects
3. Scenario - based question: You are working in a project
with a team of 4 members. One of your teammates has
a health issue. What would you do to finish the project
within the deadline?
4. What is your strength?
5.  The works you have done in the clubs?
6.  Explain the situation you have worked as a leader in a

team.

7.  What is AthenaHealth?
8.  What are the past interviews attended and why they

have rejected you?
9. Family background
10.  Are you comfortable with relocation?

Finally, 6 of us were selected.

My Preparation Strategy:

For DSA preparation, Striver’s Sheet will be very useful.

C.O.D.E Series and the ISTA weekly contests have helped me.
Try to participate in many coding events and online contests to
get familiar in coding.

For SQL, try to solve the SQL 50 series in Leetcode in

order. This will help you understand the key SQL concepts for
interviews.

       For Core subjects, refer GeeksforGeeks and Neso academy

For Aptitude, refer IndiaBix: https://www.indiabix.com/

For Puzzles, refer GFG Puzzles.

For HR questions, there is no exact answer for it. So,

prepare answers for the common HR interview questions in
your own unique way.

Previous Interviews list:

Internship: Microsoft, VeGrow, Citi

Placement: Tekion

Key Suggestions and Tips from My Experience:

Start the preparation before the semester holidays. Once

the placement drive starts, there won’t be much time for
preparation.

In the semester holidays, try to understand the things you

are not comfortable and start working on improving it.

For the coding interviews, start with brute force approach.

Don’t directly go with optimal approach. This was the mistake
which led to my VeGrow interview rejection. So, always start
solving with brute force and try to give many possible
approaches. Explain the time and space complexity for your
code and ask for edge cases. They will only check your
understanding, so syntax does not matter much.

For DSA preparation, try to solve coding problems in an
organized way. The random problem solving will not give the
conceptual understanding. Try to solve more coding problems
in each topic. Though the quantity varies, solve many problems
until you are clear about the ‘basic syntax and question format’
of that topic.

For the technical questions, try to explain the concepts in

details and also provide a simple real-time example. Try to
explain all the concepts you have known relevant to that
question.

Be clear with the tech stacks you have used in your

projects. Be clear with all the terms you have mentioned in
your resume.

For the HR questions, Be honest and confident.

Do the homework about ‘the company and the products

they are working on’, before going to interview. Even this
homework might help for your result.

Even after the good preparations, the panel luck and

many things that are not in our control also matters.

Still the good preparation only will make you grab the

available opportunity when things work in your way. Trust the
Process.

I hope you will crack your very next interview.

Feel free to contact for any queries.

Contact Information:

Name: Deepak Chandhru N

Mobile No: 8248178686

Email Id: deepakchandhru2004@gmail.com

LinkedIn: deepak-chandhru

Resume:

