Yuvaraj V – Information Technology

Intern + FTE (Based on Performance) in Athena Healthcare

About the company:

Athenahealth,  Inc.  is  a  privately  held  American  company  that  provides
network-enabled services for healthcare and point-of-care mobile apps in
the United States.

At athenahealth we’re using technology to transform the way our friends and
family  get  medical  care  and  how  doctors  treat  patients.  We  bring  cloud-
based  web  and  mobile  software  to  the  healthcare  industry  to  build  an
information backbone with the power to transform health delivery.

About the role:

Role: Software Developer

We’re looking for developers who want to work on challenging technology
problems  to  create  products  that  medical  professionals  and  patients  use
every  day.  We  work  with  a  mix  of  technologies,  but  don’t  hire  developers
based on coding language.

 •  We're  more  interested  in  folks  with  raw  talent  and  a  burning  desire  to
succeed. The most important requirement for applying is a passion to learn
and to make a difference developing enabling technologies.

 • Ability to learn and adapt quickly

• Experience reading and writing code in a programming language

• Experience working collaboratively towards project goals and deadlines

 •  Computer  Science  (CS)  or  relevant  technical  degree  program  is  a  plus,
though we will consider non-traditional, non-CS degreed applicants.

Selection Process:

1.  Online Assessment (In Offline Mode)
2.  Technical Round

3.  Technical + Managerial Round
4.  HR Round

Online Assessment:

OA taken by around 300 members (CS / IT / ECE/ EEE) and conducted in
Hacker rank.

2 Coding Questions + 6 MCQ’s ( 1hr 30mins )

Qn 1. Ball Collision (Medium Level) – Stack Problem

Practice:  This problem is very similar to below leetcode problem

https://leetcode.com/problems/asteroid-collision/description/

Qn  2.  Maximum  Umbrella  Required  –  Nothing  but  Modified  version  of
Classic Coin Denomination problem using DP.

 Practice: https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change/description

MCQ’s :

1.  Queue  is  implemented  using  LinkedList,  we  only  know  the  head
address, which operation takes linear time complexity Ans: Enqueue

2.  From phases of SDLC.
3.  Finding Time complexity for the given nested for loop ( bit tricky one)
4.   How do you evaluate postfix expressions

I  forgot  the  other  two  questions  but  its  related  to  OOPS  inheritance
and method overriding.

36 members shortlisted from this round

I think they shortlisted candidates based on points first and Time taken
to solve.

Luckily, I already practiced both coding problems in leetcode, so I finished
the test within 25 – 30 mins.

Technical Round (40 – 50 mins):

1. String Problem ( Easy Level )

    input : "a3b4c2" => output should be "aaabbbbcc"

    follow up question:

    numbers can be multiple digits:

    input: "a12b100" like this

2. Finding the closest pair in the array (Asked for brute force and optimized
approach)

3. Finding the next greatest element for each element in the array (Asked
for brute force and optimized approach)

4.  What  is  multithreading  (  Since  I  said  I  have  Knowledge  in  OS  in  my
introduction, so be careful with your words )

5. What is the difference b/w Abstract class and interface in java ?

6. How easy it is learning a new language for you ?

7. How do you debug a bug in your code ? ( I said about dry running and using
debugger )

8. SQL queries (Easy and Medium Level )

       Scenario:  Binary  Tree  is  represent  in  the  table  by  two  columns  (id,
parent_id)

       Question 1: Given an id of the node, print the type of node (root, inner,
leaf)

       Question 2: Print no of child nodes for each parent node (ans : simply use
count() along with group by parent _id)

        Another  question:  How  do  you  use  condition  with  JOIN  queries  (Ans  :
Having clause)

9. What are the various phases of software development life cycle (SDLC) ?
(Thanks to SE classes)

10. Any questions about the company ( I asked about the tech stack and my
roles  and  responsibilities  in  intern  period  and  what  are  the  factors  they
would consider to provide a FTE )

Technical  +  Managerial  Round  (40  mins):    (  14  members  attended  this
round )

1. More Project related questions

         Design Database Schema for my Project, some query questions.

2. Which language you are most comfortable with?

3. Apart from coding and development, what you do in your free time?

4. Frontend or Backend, what do you like the most and why?

5. Some questions from OA, which have written in HackerRank.

6.  Why  did  you  choose  PostgreSQL  in  your  chat  app  project?,  why  not
NoSQL ?  (I said about ensuring ACID Properties)

7. What do you know about data science. How it can be utilized?

8. How did you get to know about Athena Healthcare?

9. Any questions for me or About company?

HR Round ( 30 - 40 mins )

1.  Walk me through your resume
2.  Challenges  and  key  takeaways  while  developing  and  hosting  your

project.

3.  Your Hobbies
4.  Any idea for Higher studies?
5.  Achievements and Extra Curricular Activities
6.  Why didn’t you done any internships at past?
7.  How many interviews did you attended before ?
8.  Location Preference
9.  Any questions for me

After all these rounds, they finalized 10  members, and I was one of
them.

All the best, guys!

Feel free to contact me with you have any doubt,

Yuvaraj V,

Information Technology,

+91 6373838188

yuvarajv787@gmail.com

https://www.linkedin.com/in/yuvaraj-vetrivel-407275223

