Interview Experience

Name
Reg No
Mail id
Company

: Lavanya S
: 2018115052
: lavanyavpvs@gmail.com
: Bank of America

Bank of America’s recruitment process consists of three rounds. After the initial

application of all eligible students, some of them were shortlisted. The shortlisted students were
allowed to attend the first and second rounds. Based on the performance in the second round,
students were shortlisted for the final round.

Round 1 - Video Interview

It was actually a video interview where we’ll be interviewed by software, not by an

individual. It was conducted on a platform called “Hirevue”. We can practice questions
beforehand which will be given in the mail itself. This video interview consists of five questions
(3 other questions + 2 coding questions)

1. Tell me how your background and experience fit for this job
2. Education Background
3. Coding 1 - Array manipulation question (Easy level)
4. Coding 2 - Given the numbers in words and we have to return it in integer type

Eg: Input - thirteen
Output - 13

(Numbers range from -99999 to 99999)

5. How you solved the second coding question and what are the other methods you

think of but you didn’t use it and why?

6. Any other things you want to add to let the company know about you?

Round 2 - Technical Interview

It was a quick 20 minutes interview. This interview was scheduled for all the students

who attended the video interview. The interviewer asked me to introduce myself first. I
introduced myself along with my clubs and activities details, my interests, just the title and
technology of my project and my hobbies. Then she asked me to explain about my projects. I
included 3 of my projects in my resume. I explained all three projects in detail.

Project explanation :

- Name of the project

- Problem statement
-
-
-
- Challenges we faced and how we solved (if any)

Tech stack (ide, programming languages used, and so on)
Functional modules (only named all, not gave full description)
Team or individual project, Modules I personally worked on with the technical workflow

She didn’t interrupt and ask questions about any of the things which I explained
before. And after that, she asked which language I’m comfortable with and whether I’m
able to work with MySQL. She finally asked whether I have any questions from my side
and she concluded the interview.

Round 3 - Technical / HR Interview

I’m one of the shortlisted students after Round 2. I was asked technical questions in this

round also. But some of my friends had HR questions. It depends on the interviewer it seems.
The interviewer directly gets into interview questions even without introduce phase. The
questions were

1. He specifically picked one project from my resume and asked me to explain it. It was
actually a game project which I did under an elective subject “Game Programming”. I
explained this project in the same format as I mentioned before.

2. He asked whether I know OOPS concepts. I started explaining it with what is actually
oops and its characteristics, advantages, four fundamental concepts (Inheritance,
polymorphism, encapsulation, and abstraction) When I was about to finish the
explanation of Inheritance with its example, he interrupted me to stop and said it’s fine
already and no need to explain furthermore.

3. He asked whether I know the Software development cycle (SDLC) I explained each and

every phase of SDLC with two sentences of explanation for each.

4. Finally, he asked whether I’m aware of Agile methodology and I explained.

Fortunately, it was also a 20 minutes quick interview session and it got over with

these questions.

