BANK OF AMERICA – PLACEMENT
EXPERIENCE

-AKSHAYA S M

About the Company:

•  Bank  of America  is  a  leading  global  financial  institution,  driven  by  its
purpose of helping make financial lives better through the power of every
connection. Guided by its principle of Responsible Growth, the company
focuses  on  delivering  for  its  clients,  teammates,  communities,  and
shareholders  with  integrity  and  purpose.  In  India,  Bank  of  America
operates  as  BA  Continuum  India  Private  Limited  (BACI),  a  wholly-
owned, non-banking subsidiary.

Role:

•  The freshers from our college are initially recruited for the role of GET
(Graduate  Engineering  Trainee)  but  the  campus  role  at  BoA  offers
opportunities across diverse areas,
1.  Development:  Building  advanced  FinTech  solutions  for  banking,
trading, and risk using
technologies like AI, ML, and cloud, focusing on areas like algorithmic
trading,
anti-money laundering, and digital banking.
2.  Testing:  Ensuring  product  quality  through  functional  and  technical
testing, risk
assessment,  and  performance  optimization  using  tools  like  Selenium
and JIRA.
3.  Risk  Management:  Entry-level  analysis  in  cloud  governance,
cybersecurity, and
operational risk to enhance BoA's control environment.
4.  Infrastructure  Operations:  Software  development  to  meet  both
functional and
non-functional  business  needs,  focusing  on  DevOps,  testing,  and
automated release.
5.  Production  Support:  Event  management,  incident  handling,  and
maintaining high
availability in network and infrastructure operations.
6.  Cybersecurity:  Safeguarding  systems  against  cyber  threats  with
technologies like SIEM,
Splunk, and identity management tools.

7.  Identity  &  Access  Management  (IAM):  Controlling  access  and
managing compliance
across various tech environments, ensuring security and governance.
8.  Core  Security:  Monitoring
assessments, and ethical
hacking to protect BoA’s digital assets.

incidents,  vulnerability

for  security

Overview of the process:

1.  Video interview

2.  Technical Round-1

3.  Technical Round-2

1.Video Interview:

DURATION:90 MINS

•  The test was active on 9th and 10th September and we had to complete

it in 48 hours,  so it was like we could attempt it at any time in these 48

hours given time and was conducted on the company’s platform.

•  There were 5 questions (3 video questions + 2 coding questions).

•  The camera and microphone were open for 3 video questions and the

only camera was on for 2 coding questions.

•  The  first  video  question  was  to  “Introduce  yourself”,  the  second  was

“Why should you be a good match for this profile” and the third question

was  “Explaining  the  approach  of  your  second  coding  question”  like  u

need  to  explain  in  detail  what  logic  you  applied  to  solve  the  second

coding question.

CODING QUESTIONS:

•  Given n test cases each of which has numbers in form of strings, output

all numbers from 1 to that number which is not divisible by 5 or 7.

Example: i/p – 24

o/p - 1 2 3 4 6 8 9 11 12 13 16 17 18 19 22 23 24

•  Given a string s consisting of lower and uppercase letters where each

letter has a value from 1 to 26 and we need to calculate the beauty value

of this string which is the sum of all alphabets in it.

Note: The string is not case sensitive meaning F is exactly beautiful as f

is. Output the maximum possible beauty of this string.

Example: i/p – AbBCcc

o/p – 152

2.Technical Round-1:

DURATION:30MINS

•  Major  concepts  that  were  focused  during  my  first  round  were  DBMS,

Projects and Skills mentioned in Resume.

•  The interviewer first asked me to introduce myself. In this, make sure to

talk only about the things you are very confident about.

•  After that, I was asked to explain my ML project, which played a crucial

role in my interview.

•  Make  sure  you  know  the  complete  implementation  and  concepts

involved in those projects you mentioned.

•  Then I was given an employee table and asked to write sql queries for

finding second highest salary,different types of joins.

•

I was also given a puzzle to solve: Suppose you have 8L, 5L and a 3L

bucket with you. The buckets have no measurement lines on them and

you are asked to measure exactly 4L of water using the three buckets.

How could you measure exactly 4L water using only those buckets and

provided you have as much extra water as you need ?

TIPS:

Don’t  get  tensed  and  nervous  in  the  interview.Be  clear  and  confident  while

answering questions.

3.Technical Round-2:

•

I  was  asked  to  write  sql  queries  for  student  database  and  perform

different types of joins.

•

In this round, I was also asked few questions on Excel and python.

•  Python played an important role in BOA-interview process.

•  What is the difference between list and tuple?

•  Syntax of list and tuple.

•  Then I was also asked few managerial questions like :

•  What would you do if u couldn’t complete a task within deadline?

•  How will you handle difference of opinions with teammates?

•  Where do you see yourself in next 5 years?

•  Will you learn new technologies if needed?

TIPS:

While answering managerial questions be aware and think carefully before

responding.Be interactive and don’t be silent.

IT’S  NOT  ABOUT  WHEN  YOU  START  YOUR  PREPARATION.  IT’S

ABOUT  HOW  WELL  YOU  LEARN  ,  UNDERSTAND  AND  EXPRESS

YOUR KNOWLEDGE.

BE CONSISTENT,CONFIDENT AND WAIT FOR UR DAY.

ALL THE BEST!!!!

