Jeﬀrin Edward A — Barclays
Tech Intern

About the company:
Barclays Global Service Centre (BGSC), India, is a global capability center, supporting
Barclays businesses worldwide, delivering innovative end-to-end business solutions in
Technology, Operations and Functions.

BGSC is technology-driven and underpinned by operational excellence to ensure
excellent outcomes for our customers and clients through game-changing innovation,
working collaboratively in a control-centric environment.

TAKEN STRAIGHT FROM BARCLAYS’ ABOUT US:

Our vision is to be the UK-centred leader in global finance. We are a diversified bank with
comprehensive UK consumer, corporate and wealth and private banking franchises, a
leading investment bank, and a strong, specialist US consumer bank.

About the Role
Tech Intern at Barclays will be a real part of the team, working with their experts and
learning about the industry, their clients, their firm and a specific area of it. They’ll have
plenty of opportunities to develop new skills and make contacts. Barclays offers a diverse,
inclusive, and engaged culture. A place where people can bring their whole selves to
work and be respected for who they are, valued for what they do, and celebrated for their
contribution to their business and the community.

Selection Process:

Online Test

The test was for one hour. There were four sections: One each for syntax-based
MCQs of C, C++, and Java. The last section consisted of five coding questions
from SQL.
For C: Questions were from pointers, structs, memory allocation based, and
function pointers.
For C++: Questions were from topics like virtual functions, inheritance, and
operator overloading.
For Java: Questions were from topics like static classes, inheritance, packages, and
access specifiers.
For SQL coding: You can use MySQL, PostgreSQL, Oracle, and MSSQL. Questions
expected you to know various string-based, date-based, aggregate, and other
functions in SQL, subqueries, and joins

Interviews 1 & 2

Since both the interviews were mixed(Technical + HR), I will separate this section
into Technical and Behaviour-based questions:

Technical:
DBMS: Asked to write simple SQL queries like self-join, group by, and rank
function.
Basic DBMS concepts like relations, schemas, and how data in db is stored on disk.
SE: Stages of Software development, Approaching each stage, Risk Management,
and Maintaining Quality. For me, the questions were based on how to design the
architecture for a CRM, how would you code and test it. There were also questions
on how I managed various risks in the project I mentioned in my resume.
OOPS: Basic concepts of Inheritance, Compile-time and Run-time Polymorphism,
Encapsulation, and Access Specifiers
Others: Questions were asked based on skills mentioned in my resume like Git,
MERN. HTTP protocol and REST were asked since I mentioned Postman in Skills I
knew. I was also asked whether I had automated anything

Behaviour:
How did you plan or distribute work among yourselves in your group project?
How did you manage a group member who wouldn’t contribute?
How would you manage the workload if an important member left your team at
crucial stage in your project?
What is your opinion on using ChatGPT for work purposes?
How do you sort out a technical difficulty you’ve run into?

Tips on How to Prepare
Have a solid understanding of the basics of your subjects in the second year.

Have at least two good quality projects (and at least one group project) that you
know how they work.

Have a good grasp of SQL and DBMS concepts. Use SQL HackerRank or LeetCode
problems for practice.

Develop a basic intuition for Software Engineering.

Throw aside negativity while attending your interview and focus only on your
positives.

Presentation and Communication matter while attending your interview

For Barclays, DSA and LeetCode won’t be necessary. But for any other company,
try solving NeetCode 150 or Striver A2Z Sheet. Make sure you solve them on your
own before seeing the solution.

