LOGESH M S -   IST 3rd year

BARCLAYS INTERN

About company :

In India, Barclays plc is one of the largest UK employers and

employs over 23,000 people spread across its banking, technology and shared
services operations.

Wealth & Investment Management, which operates through Barclays Securities
& Investments Pvt Ltd (BSIPL), has attained a leading position within just five
years of being set up and has been voted the Best Private Bank in India by The
Asset for three years in a row.

Through its subsidiaries - Barclays Shared Services and Barclays Technology
Centre India - the Barclays Group employs high-quality talent that supports the
bank's global operations and technology development.

About the role:

Technology Summer Intern- 2025

Work on projects & tech on developing highly scalable application.

Design and develop Micro services, GUI, Server components. Implement
Functional solutions, unit test & coordinate releases and where applicable
contribute to design sessions. Interact with end users & product owner to
understand their requirements and build solution pertaining to that. Work as a
part of a local team and liaise regularly with colleagues in other regions.
Provide support to for the applications BAU work as needed

Duration – 8 weeks

Interview process:

I had 3 rounds in the process.

1.  Online test (Technical )
2.  Interview Round – I
3.  Interview Round –II

Online test :

o  The online test consist of 14 questions of which 12 are MCQ and 1

coding question and one SQL query.

o  MCQ questions covered the topics of simple logical questions in

C++,java and some were given as pseudocode.

o  Other than this there were conceptual questions on the above

topics and SQL.

o  Then there was a Coding question based on strings which was a

medium level question .

o  Last one was a SQL question where tables where given and we

need to write a query to retrieve the required data.

o  Weightage for coding and SQL questions were more than the

other MCQ.

Interview rounds:

Round 1:

o  The results came after two days and 29 students were shortlisted

from CS and IT from both campuses.

o  The interview had 2 rounds .
o  The first round is a technical round where we were interviewed

based on our resume and it was a pure technical round.

o  The first thing I was asked was to introduce about myself in non

academic terms(This was so different from my previous experience
)

o  I was asked to explain about my projects and its tech stack .Then
they asked about logic and algorithms I used for one particular
project .

o  They asked me why I choose a particular method and tech stack .
o  Then  there were questions on DSA focusing on stack ,queue,

heaps and trees.

o  Questions on specific programming languages were also asked.
o  Then in DBMS I was asked questions on basic concepts and I was

given some questions on joins .

o  Then there was a discussion on where my project could be

implemented .

o  In the end I was given a chance to ask some questions to the

interviewer .

o  The interview went for about 25 minutes and 2 interviewers

interviewed me

Round 2:

o  This was a HR round and the questions were testing how I would
have reacted and what I would have done in scenarios of relating
to projects and technical experiences

o  The interview started by explaining about my projects
o  I was asked about the coding experience I had in those projects
o  Then based on my project experience I was asked certain HR
interview questions which were like ‘ Did you come under this
situation? If yes what you did to overcome ‘ . These questions
were based on the company’s values RISES. The questions were
expecting a answer on how I valued my team and their
contributions , how I balanced every circumstances.
o  They also kept an eye on our communication skills
o  Then they gave a brief note on the company and gave a chance to

ask some questions.

o  With this the interview ended.
o  This round went for around 15 – 20 minutes

Preparations :

o I started preparing for the coding rounds towards the end of  my 4 th
semester and in the beginning I couldn’t find the right way to prepare.

Our seniors then gave us a weekly intern preparation competitions .Then
I became clear on how to continue the journey

o Later in my semester holidays I utilized ACM CODE documents and
contests for my preparations from which I started to involve more in
problem solving in GeeksforGeeks and leetcode.

o I continued these preparations even after my holidays and I gained
confidence on problem solving and cleared some coding rounds.
o Next thing is the resume. It is not about what experiences and projects
you have in your resume. It’s on what you know about the projects and
how you did that .The experiences and technical learning that you did in
the projects matters the most for a intern interview .

o I would suggest to be confident on your resume as the interviewer will

continue the interview based on your resume .

o Before going for an interview make sure you are good in the basics of

OOPS ,DSA  concepts as most interview take a lead from the answers you
give for these questions . Revise all subjects conceptually as well recall all
the logics and algorithms you learnt in your course. Always be ready to
explain everything in paper too.Gain some knowledge about the
company and their values.

o During the interview make sure that you speak about the things that you

are clear and confident about.

o Be  ready to ask questions to them as this will be  helpful to asses your
curiosity.  Be calm and face the interviewer with full confidence.

o The things that helped me to get this opportunity is my confidence and
knowledge in my resume and projects. So my suggestion is to involve in
projects , gain experiences and be strong with your resume to clear a
interview round.

ALL THE BEST FOR YOUR PREPARATIONS !!

