BNY Mellon Internship Interview Experience

About the Company

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, commonly known as BNY

Mellon, is an American multinational Investment banking services holding
company headquartered in New York City. It is by far the world's largest
custodian bank and asset servicing company BNY Mellon is an investment
company, which provides investment management, investment services and
wealth management helping institutions and individuals succeed in markets all
over the world.

Coding Round 1

Timing: 90mins.
Mode : Online

Alike all the companies, Coding round was BNY Mellon's first level of
selection process. There were 4 coding questions distributed across various
domains and rated under different difficulty levels. The platform used was
hackerrank. Out of these 4 questions, one was categorised as easy, two were
medium and one was hard. Around 25 candidates were shortlisted based on
the number of test cases passed and points, for the next round.

Round 2: Technical Interview 1

Timing: 40mins.
Mode : Offline

This round started with my self-introduction.The interviewer asked me to
solve an aptitude question which is to find the next number in a sequence then
he asked me to write the logic for the coding question - find all pairs of
anagrams in list of strings and he asked about the fundamentals of sql and he
asked to write the sql query for a easy question. He asked to explain the
projects which I mentioned in my resume and also asked me about the recent
technologies which inspired me the most and he asked some questions
related to that. We are asked to write the answers in pen-paper mode. After
answering all the questions he gave and he mentioned, to perform well in the
next round.

Round 3: Technical + HR interview

Timing: 40mins.
Mode: Offline.

This round started with my self-introduction.The interviewer asked me
to solve a  maths question based on Pythagorean theorem . He tested my
knowledge of Oops, to explain the features of Oops with some real life
examples. After I had explained to him, he asked me to explain my projects
and he asked some questions related to that. He also asked me about
some basics of cyber security like sql injection, phishing , XSS etc. Since
my project was a team project, he asked about my ability to work as a team
and how I used to manage team members when their performance is low.
Then he asked me how I would keep myself up to date and what steps I
made to learn new technologies apart from my curriculum.

16 candidates were given the offer for summer internships.

Tips:

● Practice coding questions and attend contests on platforms like

Leetcode, GFG , Hackerrank and codeforces.

● Thorough with basics of OOPS and DBMS.
● Make sure you have 2-3 good projects. It would be better if you have
projects on Angular Js and Java (company may expects from you, not
compulsory)

● Most of the interview questions will be from the resume.

This is Kanivan S from IT CEG of batch 2024.
If you have queries, you can contact me on skanivan12@gmail.com

