About the Company

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, commonly known as BNY
Mellon, is an American multinational Investment banking services
holding company headquartered in New York City. It is by far the world's
largest custodian bank and asset servicing company BNY Mellon is an
investment company, which provides investment management,
investment services and wealth management helping institutions and
individuals succeed in markets all over the world.

Online Round (Coding)

Timing: 90mins.

The first round of selection process was Coding round. There were 4
coding questions with varying points based on their difficulty and no
aptitude questions were asked in the first round.The platform used was
Hackerrank. Out of these 4 questions, one was categorised as easy, two
were medium and one was hard. Around 25 students were selected for
next round based on their points they got in the coding round.

Round 2: Technical Round - 1

Timing: 30mins.

This round was conducted in Physical mode held at CUIC. It started with
my self-introduction. Then the interviewer asked my resume and he
asked me about my projects which I mentioned in my resume. I did a
project on Machine learning most of the questions were asked form that
project. No technical questions other than my projects were asked for
me in this round.

Round 3: Technical Round -2

Timing 40mins.

In this round it started with my introduction. Then basic OOPs questions
were asked, then he gave a situation and asked me to write SQL query
based on inner join. After that one programming question was asked it
was related to grouping anagrams in a given list of strings. After that he
explained me what are all the technologies are used by the company
and projects he is working on.

DSA problem related to: https://leetcode.com/problems/group-anagrams/

In this round, for the programming question and SQL query we were
asked to write it in Pen- paper mode. So for some of the students 3rd
round was conducted like a Hybrid one in which both Technical round-2
and HR questions were asked but for some students separate HR
Round was conducted.

Round 4: HR Round

Timing 30mins.

This Round was conducted like having a casual conversation with
someone. Because my interviewer asked me questions from the things
happened in my Life like, the recent problem I faced in my life and steps
taken to solve it and biggest achievement in my life and some of the
basic HR questions were asked.

Finally, after completing all the four rounds of Interviews, Around 16
students were selected for the Internship.

TIPS

•  Practice coding problems consistently form any of the platforms

like Hackerrank, leetcode and try to attend contests in codeforces
regularly.

•  Have 2-3 Projects from different domain and especially from web

development using Angular JS and a project using JAVA.
•  Be Confident and be yourself while answering questions in

Interview.

•  Be strong in the basics of OOPs and DBMS.
•  Be ready to answer the questions asked from your projects you

mentioned in your resume.

All the best!!!

This is Srirambabu from CEG IT of Batch 2024 If you have any queries,
you can reach me at srirambabu1005@gmail.com.

