Experience Document

Name: Keerthana B K

Batch : IT - 2024

Company Placed : BNY ( Bank of NewYork) - BNY is a global financial services company. It
has two major divisions - Operations and Engineering. We as engineers will be working under
Engineering/Technology.

Role : I was hired for Software Developer Engineer (SDE). I am currently working under
DATABASE ENGINEERING domain. The tech stack I deal with are Oracle db, Power BI and
Data Analytics. I had a Winter Internship for a period of 6 months (during 8th semester).

for

it's really important

Preparation Strategy : Understand concepts of DBMS, OOPs, Networks, OS(basics) and Data
Structures. Take notes,
revision. Practice CP ( Competitive
Programming) from 3rd year. Start with basic problems and later increase the difficulty gradually.
Make an Excel sheet and list out the topics to be covered and update your daily progress in
that. Practicing in a group of 2-3 with your friend/classmates will be advisable. Group Discussion
plays a major role in learning. It will help you get a new perspective in solving a problem and
improve yourself. It will make you solve more problems when your friends solve them too. Try
solving at least 2 problems per day as a routine. During placements preparation ( at the end of
3rd year) solve 5-10 prbs per day. When you feel exhausted with problem solving, cover theory
concepts too. Refer to cheat sheets, notes and general
interview questions. Prepare your
resume well before 2 months of the drive. You can refine your resume after each interview and
based on the company too. In your continuous preparation take breaks and refresh your mind.
Attend mock interviews or ask your placed friends to conduct such rounds to get familiar with
interview questions. Do not get stressed during your placement drive, focus only on your
preparation. Be ready to face peer pressure.

Placement Drive Experience: BNY drive came in the month of August. It had 1 online coding
round, 2 technical rounds(physical) and 1 HR round(physical). The online round was for a
duration of 90 minutes where 4 questions ( 1 Easy – array/string based, 2 Medium and 1 Hard)
were needed to be solved. I don’t remember the questions as I attended a series of other
company rounds too.
I was shortlisted for the next round and had 2 days for interview
preparation. On the day of the interview, I attended the 1st technical round by 10:30 am. The
interviewer introduced himself and asked me to introduce myself. I started with my personal
introduction, then about my semester projects ( explained like a one-liner with objective and
tech-stack used ) and external projects( with other organization/club), explained about my
internship , my coding skills , my strong subjects and ended with involvement in club activities.
He asked me if
I had a subject related to AI and ML. When I said yes, he started to ask
questions related to them. I told him that I have not done projects in ML, but I have basic
knowledge in them. Then, he asked a question related to File Handling. I actually answered that
question in terms of array ,then linked list and concluded it in terms of Database record

management. He liked the kind of perspective that I had. He asked questions related to SQL
query, joins , primary and secondary key and other DBMS concepts. I was asked to write
pseudocode for an easy coding question. Then, the questions were related to my projects and
detailed explanations about them. I was asked to tell about the hardships faced during my
project
journey. The external project which I had contributed gave an upper hand in the
interview. The 1st round lasted for about 45 mins. At the end the interviewer hinted me to be
ready for the next round. The 2nd round was a bit easier than expected. The questions were
related to my projects, DBMS and OOPs concepts. This interviewer expected me to answer in
java. But my core language is C++, so I informed him about it. I said I am clear with the
concepts and I can answer in terms of C++. He was fine with that. This round was for about 30
mins. The shortlist for the final round was announced a bit late. The HR round took place
around 3:30 pm. This round was quite tricky and tougher than the 2nd round. I started with a
basic intro about myself and the projects. I was asked to explain in detail about my external
project. I had more questions related to Club activities and volunteering. The questions were
more managerial and tested our soft skills. I was given a puzzle to solve. It was tricky then, but I
had discussed it once with my friend before. It took some time to solve. I had another puzzle
related to lift. I didn’t solve it completely as other questions were switched. This round lasted for
45-50 mins. I asked for feedback at every round and in previous company rounds too.

Link to puzzle: https://www.mathsisfun.com/puzzles/weighing-9-balls-solution.html

specified skill

Tips and Tricks : Speak with confidence in the interview. Do not add skills in your resume
which you are not strong in. All questions are completely asked from Resume. If you aren’t sure
about any answer, tell the interviewer without hesitation and tell them you are ready to acquire
in future if needed. Try explaining answers with paper-pen
the
(flowchart/diagrams) , if you get stuck with explanations. Ask questions if you don't get what
they are asking for. Highlight your unique skills (hackathon participation, external projects,
intern) in your introduction. If you have a language problem do not get stressed. Try explaining
as much as possible. Learn about the company a bit before you attend the physical interview.
Read previous interview experience from GeeksforGeeks.

Preparation Docs:

Playlist preferred: Take you forward

:
Link
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1fk5lVPWFyASM_CDm4GJWrlluKLr0V-xS?usp=drive_link

All the best guys!! You can crack the interview. Do not lose hope. We were in your phase too..

Do contact me anytime if any help is needed.

