PLACEMENT DRIVE – BNY Mellon

Batch : ( 2023-24 )

      - Sourav Kumar N R S

About the Company

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, commonly known as BNY, is an American
multinational Investment banking services holding company headquartered in New York City.
It is by far the world's largest custodian bank and asset servicing company BNY Mellon is an
investment company, that provides investment management, investment services, and
wealth management helping institutions and individuals succeed in markets all over the
world.

About the Role:

We were offered a Full Stack Developer Role. The day-to-day job at BNY includes working
with Angular, Springboot, Python, Git, etc. This role requires us to understand the business
requirements and provide them with an efficient system that serves the client with the best
experience. They offered the option to do a 6-month semester internship with them too.

Preparation Strategy:

I would divide the preparation strategy into two

1.  Long Term preparation
2.  Short Term preparation

Long Term Preparation:

One should always start their preparation early and keep learning consistently. Join

the Headfirst, CODE program conducted by ACM and Placement/Internship training provided
by the seniors from ISTA. Consistently learn. Long-term preparation is when you have ample
of time for your placement or intern drive. Try to cover all the topics that are given in the
CODE program or ISTA’s program.  Leverage the free content available on YouTube for your
learning.

Short Term Preparation.

This is when you have companies fast approaching you. Once you know what company is
coming in your placement/intern drive. Prepare the previously asked and most frequently asked
questions from those companies for each round. Go through this company well and know its
leadership principles if you are through the online round.

Interview Experience

Online Round

In the online round, we were asked 4 coding questions. 1 easy, 2 Medium, and 1 Hard

question was asked. One of the questions asked was a variation of the knapsack problem (DP). The
test was conducted on the Hackerrank platform with the duration being 1 hour.

Round 1

  The next three rounds were face-to-face (offline) interviews conducted in CUIC. In this

round, I was asked to write the code for inserting a node in the linked list in the A4 sheet. The
interviewer reviewed the code and questioned about the corner cases in the problem. Apart from
this, I was asked one question on each of the computer science topics like DBMS, OS, CN, Distributed
systems, OOPS, Java, etc. Apart from this, I was asked questions from my projects too. The prominent
question was how I implemented security features in the Chat application I developed.

Round 2

In this round, I was asked to write the code for finding the number of pairs in an array that

sum up to K. Following the coding questions, I was asked few technical questions, few resume-based
questions, and a few behavioral test questions.

Round 3

This was the final round. Here I was asked a slightly harder coding problem. I was asked to

write the logic on an A4 sheet. I wrote the better approach in the paper, but he was not satisfied
with that. Then after a few minutes of discussion, I came up with the optimal approach and
explained it to him. I didn’t write that on paper. After the coding questions, I was asked to draw the
architecture diagram for one of my projects and explain it. Following this I was asked a few questions
technical questions and the interview was over. Within 2 hours the results were announced and I got
selected.

Tips and Tricks

1.  Start the preparation early
2.  Cover as many topics as possible
3.  Learn to approximately estimate time complexity based on the constraints given in the

coding problem

4.  Take notes in the class for each subject and revise them before going for placements
5.  Have a great mindset with fighting spirit because the placement/Intern drive will be very

mentally tiring

Preparation Materials

Striver’s SDE Sheet – Top Coding Interview Problems (takeuforward.org)

Leetcode DSA sheet by Fraz - Google Sheets

(165) take U forward - YouTube

All the Best

