My Interview Experience

Round 1(BNY): Online Coding

My ﬁrst round of coding was an online test for BNY. We had 4 ques(cid:415)ons that
we had to ﬁnish within around 60 to 90 mins. The ques(cid:415)ons were in ascending
order in terms of diﬃculty. The topics in these ques(cid:415)ons included algorithms
whose prior knowledge is key to solving. Arrays, Strings and Dynamic
Programming ques(cid:415)ons. The ques(cid:415)ons were tough ones. The selec(cid:415)on was
done even if the candidate had not solved all 4 ques(cid:415)ons. So the more you
solve the be(cid:425)er chances and keep an eye out to solve as many test cases as
possible. Sorry although I do not remember the ques(cid:415)ons exactly.

On-Campus Interview (BNY):

The whole process consisted a total of 3 rounds. Many interviewers had shown
up and the ques(cid:415)ons put out by them are diﬀerent, based on the interviewer
alone, so the diﬃculty may vary for sure.

So, in my ﬁrst round I was asked about my personal projects men(cid:415)oned in my
resume. Most of my projects were full-stack hence I was asked about my
interests as well, like why web-development or what about other technologies
currently trending and so on. I was asked ques(cid:415)ons based on React and
concepts around it. I was also asked in what ways can one map OOPs concepts
that I had studied in C++ to concepts in React.

There were ques(cid:415)ons about my projects, about the workﬂow and why I had
used a par(cid:415)cular concept. So be thorough with the projects men(cid:415)oned in your
resume. There is also a high chance companies ask you to draw ER diagrams for
your projects and ques(cid:415)on about it. The majority of this round was about
projects, concepts like threads, OOPs & SQL. I was also asked about projects in
other domains like Machine Learning. I was also asked my work outside of
college projects, extracurricular ac(cid:415)vi(cid:415)es if any and projects that were not part
of college syllabus.

The next round was a li(cid:425)le more lightweighted on the technical side and had a
few more HR related ques(cid:415)ons as to why BNY? Why ﬁntech? Why not a
Product based company? What do I know about BNY? And so on. The technical

aspect was again few generic ques(cid:415)ons about C++ & SQL. Some ques(cid:415)ons
about my projects and Domain interests.

My last round was with a Director from BNY. I was again asked about my
projects and explain one of them and their use-case. He later gave me a
scenario as follows:

“A busy man needs to pay his maid, cash only. He goes to a nearby ATM only to
ﬁnd out that cash is not available in the ATM. How would improve his
experience as a customer, give 3 possible solu(cid:415)ons to enhance customer
sa(cid:415)sfac(cid:415)on.”

So that was my interview experience in total.

Other Interview Experiences:

I have 2 other experiences. One for my summer internship with SCB and
another during placements with Appian.

So SCB was more of projects and SQL based. Lot of why ﬁntech and SCB
ques(cid:415)ons as well. ER diagrams and more database related ques(cid:415)ons based on
Joins, Create, Update and other concepts if you have used in your projects.

Appian was actually looking for proper java developers. Although they did
allow us to code in c++ but from scratch and not pre-deﬁned testcase type
ques(cid:415)ons how one would solve in leetcode. So added diﬃculty. They asked a
lot of Dynamic Programming and Tree based ques(cid:415)ons.

Some Useful (cid:415)ps perhaps:

There will be a lot of technical, resume and HR related ques(cid:415)ons, make sure to
be clear, honest and speak conﬁdently with the knowledge you have in a very
respec(cid:414)ul manner.

Do Strivers crash sheet incase you are only star(cid:415)ng with your coding, watch
videos and try to grasp concepts. Do not spend excess (cid:415)me if you are not able
to solve a par(cid:415)cular problem. Tensions will be high alongside huge peer
pressure when friends and fellow classmates get placed. Try to be op(cid:415)mis(cid:415)c
and prac(cid:415)ce as hard as you can and give full eﬀort. Refer NeetCode sheet as
well, that can be helpful. So prac(cid:415)ce well, keep basic coding syntax and
knowledge in mind.

Go through Concepts like Networks, OOPs, Threads and more which are the
theore(cid:415)cal concepts in your syllabus. Focus more on interview websites that
have pre-deﬁned ques(cid:415)ons, helps in covering topics quicker.

Know (cid:415)me complexity of various searching and sor(cid:415)ng algorithms. Keep the
coding strong, prac(cid:415)ce and cover as much as DSA as possible.

Hope my experience and (cid:415)ps/advice can help y’all. Stay calm, have faith and do
well and work hard.

ALL THE BEST!!

