                                                                  Interview Experience

Name         :   Varshini V                                                                           Reg No :2018115123

Email         :   varshinivelmurugan2000@gmail.com

Company  :    Caterpillar India Private Limited

Totally 4 rounds were conducted.

•  Aptitude
•  Coding
•  Group Discussion
•  One to One Interview

 Round 1: Aptitude

Only MCQ questions were asked in this round. Questions were from quantitative ,logical and
verbal reasoning and  technical aptitudes.

Round 2 : Coding

Two coding questions were asked. The questions were easy and direct.

1.  https://leetcode.com/problems/find-pivot-index/
2.   Another question was a string manipulation question

Round 3 : Group Discussion

This round was held through teams call. About 10 students were in my group and 2 panel
members were there to evaluate. The topic given to our group was “Globalization is boon or
bane”. About 10 mintues this round went.

Starting the discussion or concluding the discussion will be added point to clear this round.

Round 4: Interview (Technical + HR)

This round also held through teams call. There were 2 interviewers one interviewer asked
technical questions and another interviewer asked HR questions. This round last for about 40
minutes.

First the interviewer asked me to introduce myself. Then he asked me to explain about my
projects. More than half of the interview questions were asked from the projects I did. This was
the deciding part of the interview. Since I did project in Socket IO, Node JS he asked me

questions like what is socket?  Is there any central server to maintain socket etc. Another
question he asked for every project was whether I deployed the project in real time.

Then he asked some OOPS and DBMS questions

1. What is the difference between local and instance variable?

2. Constructor and its types

3. Questions related to Inheritance ,Abstarction

4. Runtime and Compile time polymorphism

5. Types of joins in sql

Then another interviewer asked me some HR questions

1. How you will adapt to new technologies?

2. How will I ensure that the project I have done in college is helpful to the society?

And some more questions similar to the above 2 questions.

•  Answer the questions confidently and politely. Even though you don’t know the answer

for some questions  it’s ok answer the question you know confidently.

•  Make sure you know everything that you mentioned in your resume.

