Interview Experience

Name: Balasubramaniam M                                                     Reg No: 2018115018

Email: balasubramaniam082000@gmail.com

Company: Caterpillar India Private Limited

Caterpillar’s recruitment process contains four rounds. Eligible students

are allowed to attend round1 and round2. Based on round1 and round2
performance, students were shortlisted for Group Discussion. Based on
performance in GD, interview will be held.

Round 1: Aptitude

It contains quantitative aptitude, verbal and logical reasoning and

technical aptitudes. This round was conducted in AMCAT platform.

Round 2: Coding

Two coding questions were asked. Both the questions belong to easy

category. The questions I got was based on arrays. This round was also
conducted in AMCAT platform.

Round 3: Group Discussion

The shortlisted students were invited for Group Discussion (GD). GD was

conducted in Microsoft Teams. The shortlisted students were divided into
groups of 8 or 10. There were around 10 students participating in my group
and 2 to 3 panel members. Our group was given 2 topics to discuss. Some
other groups got only 1 topic. The 2 topics given to our group were “Is Gold a
good investment” and “Strategy or Execution”.

Round 4: Technical Interview

Students who got shortlisted in GD got a call/mail for the interview

process. There were 3 interviewers who interviewed me. Interview was
conducted in Microsoft Teams.

Initially I was asked to introduce myself. Then, I was asked about the
areas that I am interested in and the Internship that I have done. Then the
following questions were asked,

1.  What are the memories that are available in JVM?

2.  State examples, where Heap and Stack memory are used.
3.  Can a static member function of a base class be overridden?
4.  If access specifiers are not mentioned to the members of base class, is it

possible to use it in the derived class?

5.  What is a final method?
6.  Name some of the collections in Java.
7.  In Collections, the data get stored in the order they are inserted or in a

random manner.

8.  How does hashmap work? How data get stored in hashmap?
9.  What is Hash Collision and how to eliminate it?
10. What are exceptions and name some exceptions
11. Are Exceptions different from Errors? Give an example for Error.
12. A Coding question: Reverse a given string using recursion.

