INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE

Name:  SANJAYRAM R

Reg no: 2018115095

Email: sanjayramramesh@gmail.com

Company: Caterpillar India Private Limited

    The recruitment process consists of 4 rounds. 1st round is aptitude round, after finishing the
1st round eligible students appeared for 2nd round which is a coding round, few more students
were filtered in this round and the selected students appeared for 3rd round which is Group
Discussion, again the selected students appeared for the final round which is a one to one
interview HR + Technical.

ROUND 1:

    This is a aptitude round contains, quantitative aptitude, verbal - logical reasoning and technical
aptitudes conducted in AMCAT platform. This is not a major eliminator round, students who
answered reasonably well were selected for the round 2. Round 1 was held on 6.00 pm and the
selected candidates received link for round 2 by 9.00pm on the same day.

ROUND 2:

    This round was held on the same day of round 1 from 9.30pm - 10.30 pm. This is a coding
round, 2 questions were given one from array and other from string both were easy. I answered
both the questions and all testcases were passed. This is also in AMCAT platform.

ROUND 3:

    From round 2 shortlisted students were asked to appear for Group Discussion, this is round 3
which is a major eliminator round. This round was held few days after the round 2 . The
shortlisted students were grouped into a team of 6 where both CS and IT department from both
CEG and MIT were there. This round was conducted in MS TEAMS and we were given 2 topics
1. Globalization is a boon or bane - 15mins 2. Bit coin - 15 mins. Out of 6 students, 2 students
who spoke well were selected for the next round from each team.

ROUND 4:

    Round 4 is a HR + Technical Interview , which was held on the same day, selected candidates
received MS TEAMS meeting link. There were 4 interviewers, 2 handled HR and other 2
handled Technical part, this round went more than 45 mins for me.

   Initially they asked me introduce my self, I spoke all about my school education, my projects,
my Intern, my area of interest, my hobbies and my achievements. Then They asked me to
completely explain 2 of my projects, after explaining the 4 interviewers questioned me about all
the technical stacks in my project. This was the hectic part of the interview because they went
very deep inside the project, such that only if we had sincerely done the project we could answer
their questions. Since I did my project in firebase they also completely questioned me about
firebase. Questions about my project went more than 30 mins. Then they asked me a coding
question, There is an array of 0s and +ve integers, we need to sort the array such that all the
0s comes first followed by other elements, but in the same order as if they appear in the
original array, i.e)only 0s should be sorted other non 0s should not be sorted. 1st I gave a
brute force approach, but they asked about the time and space complexity and asked me reduce
it, then i gave an optimized approach and they accepted it.

   Then at last they asked whether I have any questions to ask them, I asked what will be my role
in Caterpillar and how was my performance and what are the areas I should improve. I
personally recommend to ask questions back to the interviewer it will always increase the
probability of getting selected.

NOTE:

    1. Always be confident while speaking to the interviewer, even though u give wrong answer
don't lose your confidence your confidence plays a major role.

   2. Always have a smile, don't show your emotions to your interviewer.

   3. Be patient and polite and use your words carefully.

