Sanmitha V S - Information Technology
– EO&T intern in Citi

About the Company:

Citi Solutions Center (CSC) is a global hub for innovation and operations within Citigroup, providing
comprehensive solutions and support across various functions like technology, operations, finance,
and risk management. These centers are strategically located worldwide, enabling Citi to leverage
diverse talent and drive efficiency through centralized services. CSCs play a crucial role in enhancing
Citi's global operations by implementing cutting-edge technologies, optimizing processes, and
ensuring compliance with regulatory standards. They contribute to the bank's ability to deliver
seamless financial services, supporting Citi's mission to be a trusted partner to its clients globally.

About the Role:

Enterprise Operations and Technology (EO&T) within Citi Solutions Center (CSC) is the backbone of
Citigroup's global operations, responsible for delivering essential technology and operational services
that support the bank's vast network. EO&T at CSC focuses on developing and maintaining the
infrastructure that powers Citi's banking services, ensuring security, scalability, and efficiency. This
includes everything from managing data centers, cybersecurity, and cloud computing to optimizing
financial transactions and risk management systems. By leveraging advanced technologies and global
talent, EO&T within CSC ensures that Citi can operate smoothly, innovate continuously, and provide
reliable, high-quality services to clients worldwide.

Overview of the Process:

The overall process consisted of

● An Online coding contest in SHL platform
● Interview Round 1 (Based on Resume) – in CUIC
● Interview Round 2 (Technical) – in CUIC
● Interview Round 3 (Technical) – in CUIC
● HR Round

Domains offered for Intern:

EO&T – Enterprise Operations and Technology

ICG

PBWMT – Product Development

Online coding contest in SHL platform:

The coding contest was conducted in SHL platform. Normally, if a online test is conducted in
SHL platform, it would be easier than Hackerrank, Hackerearth or any other platform of the
company itself. So don’t worry about the difficulty of the contest. It consisted of 3 sections
namely 2 aptitude sections and a coding section.

The aptitude section consisted of simple aptitude questions, technical mcqs, etc. But the
thing in SHL is you can’t move to the next question without answering the current question.
And once you have moved from a question, you can’t move to that question. No negative
markings.

The 3rd section consisted of 2 coding questions; both were simple questions.

1) Reversing a number
2) Given an array of numbers. Return the sum of 2 numbers whose product is

maximum. The numbers can be positive or negative.

14 students were shortlisted for interview process of EO&T intern.

TIPS for Online Test:

Always remember that if a test is easy, you have to race with the time. If more
people solve the given questions, then obviously the deciding criteria would be how
fast you did than others. Whether you do in brute force or in an efficient way, have
an eye on timing. I did the 2nd question in brute force but passed all the test cases.
The moment it passed all the test cases, I didn’t optimise my code. I just finished the
test before 30 – 45 minutes which greatly helped me get selected for the next round.

Interview Round 1 (Based on Resume):

This round was purely based on our Resume. The questions were general. The panel
consisted of 2 members and there were several panels. Questions and their complexity
depend on the panel. Some panel members even asked DSA questions.

● They had asked us explain our projects, the tech stacks used in it, etc.
● One of the panel members asked my favourite language and favourite project.

I said Python and I did a project with deep learning which was my favourite. He
asked me why did you choose that project, various steps involved in that project, etc
● Then they asked about the subjects which I study in my 5th semester and which is

favourite in it.
I said compiler engineering and Unix internals.

● Since I said Unix internals, he asked what do you study in that and asked How to
terminate a process that took all the memory while other processes are waiting for
memory.

● What’s your ambition?
● Any questions for him?

Interview Round 2 (Technical):

This round went for 45 minutes.

● They started with my introduction and stuff.
● What's a data structure? List out the data structures that you know
● Then they gave me a CSV file with fields – Roll number, Name, Semester, Course and
Fees paid. They had asked me to return the students who study Java course and not
paid their fees.
Since I know to operate on CSV files in Python, I easily wrote a piece of code. I even
mentioned them that I’m not perfect with the syntax since I studied this in my 12th.
But they said syntax doesn’t matter.

● Then they asked me to connect to a database in any language of my preference. I did
with PHP and Postgres. They had asked me to explain the parameters like host, port,
uname, password and dbname.
● What’s your favourite subject?
● Have you used any apis? How will you call that api? If at all an error occurs in the api

call how will do exception handling in that?

● Difference between get and post methods. Which one is safe? Methods other than

get and post.

● Difference between http and https.
● Write a code to find the missing number in the given range.
● Given a table with fields roll number, name, fees, pending fees. They had asked me

to write a procedure to sum up all the fees and pending fees.

● Asked me to write a function for the same.
● Write a trigger when a record is inserted into a table1 it has to be inserted into
another table table2. If the table 2 is full and trigger fails will it be updated in table
1?

● Do u know about synonyms in dbms?
● Do u know about views in dbms? Can we use dml commands in views?
● Since I mentioned about compiler engineering as one of my favourite subjects, they
asked me about which compiler does java use? Do we need to change the compiler
for java if we change the OS? Which compiler does C uses? What's GCC? Why are so
many compilers present for C?

● And few small small questions here and there.
● Any questions for him

They weren’t bothered about the syntax. I mentioned in various places that I’m not sure
about the syntax and they were fine with that.

For few questions on Java and Compiler engineering, I said that we didn’t come to that level,
we are just in the basics and they understood my point of view.

For few questions, I got confused and confidently answered the wrong answer. But luckily,
they selected me for the next round.

Mostly, their first question was beyond the syllabus, operating on CSV files, etc.

Other questions like connect Python with postgres, Write code for insertion and deletion in
AVL trees in C, etc were also asked for other candidates.

5 students were selected for the next round.

Interview Round 3 (Technical):

This round was conducted only for 3 students. It happened only for 10 mins.

They had given a table,

EMP_ID
100
200
300
400
500

EMP_NAME
A
B
C
D
E

M_ID
200
300
400
100
100

Salary
40000
20000
30000
20000
10000

M_ID refers to the manager id to whom they have to report. It means that A is an employee
and a manager. D and E will report to him.

They asked me to write a query to list out the details of the manager and the count of
employees who are reporting to him.
I understood that I have to use INNER JOIN in the query but anyways I wrote a wrong query.

They were happy that I figured out that I have to use INNER JOIN and they explained the
correct query.

No shortlisting happened after this round. All the 5 candidates attended the HR round.

HR Round:

It went for around 15 – 20 mins. The HR introduced himself to me and it was like a casual talk.

● Tell me about yourself, hobby, projects, family, etc.
● Do any of your parents are in govt job, had been working in citi, etc
● Why do you choose citi, etc.
● Any questions for him

He was satisfied with my answer and yeah… 4 candidates got EO&T intern and I’m one
among them.

TRICKS THAT I FOLLOWED:

● As said earlier, I completed the online test as soon as possible
● The moment I came to know that I was selected for the interview, I patiently read the job
description. They had mentioned that “We are looking for persons who are eager to learn,
etc” and hence accordingly I framed the answers for “Tell me about yourself”
● In every round, they’ll ask “Do you have any questions for us?” as the last question.

Do ask a lot of reasonable questions,
about the company,

tech stacks used,
kind of projects that we do in intern,
location of work,
Could you please tell me your experience in Citi,
The best thing in Citi according to you
Work culture in Citi, etc
Your questions will determine your eagerness to work in the company.

● At the same time, asking more questions seemed uncomfortable for me because that
seemed to be prepared and hence after asking 2 or 3 questions to the interviewers, I said, “I
do have a lot of questions but because of time being, I’m limiting myself”

● While asking questions,

I mentioned the full form of EO&T (Enterprise Operations &
few times which denotes that you have made few searches, read the

Technology)
documentation which again says your eagerness to work in the company.

● I listened to the PPT which actually helped me to get a view of what they do in Citi. This is my
advice, if you are selected for the interview, do gather info about the company and recall
whatever told in the PPT. Also while asking questions or answering the question “Why citi?”, I
mentioned “In the PPT, they said that…” which again added to my interest to work in Citi.

MY PREPARATION STRATEGY:

● I didn’t prepare in my 4th semester holidays in a daily basis. I had spent my holidays
in my summer project, a bit on intern preparation and in leisure. But as soon as the
schedule of internships and placements are given by the CUIC, I did rigorous
preparation. When I mean rigorous, I map it to its exact meaning without a cheat
day. I was able to complete my intern training within 2 weeks in addition to the
college work. I made sure to complete the preparation before the first company
arrives. The reason why I mention this is, it’s not the duration of your preparation
matters, covering all the topics, practising the needed matters the most.

● I used ACM CODE documents for my preparation
● Before every online test/ interview, I would surf the net and read the past internship
experiences of that particular company. This gives an idea of how difficult the test
would be, what are their expectations, etc

● And in addition, I approached my seniors who got intern in the concerned company
Interaction with seniors literally helped me to know

and asked tips if there are any.
the evaluation pattern, what do they expect, etc

● If I don’t know answers for the questions asked in a test of a company, I made sure to

know that before the test of next company.

● Rejections do affect my confidence. But when you fall down, make sure that you are

getting up from that.

● I had a casual attitude when I got used to the interview process after attending the

tests of 4 – 5 companies. That really helped me to recover when I fail.

● I’m sure that the internship season would be stressful. You’ll have continuous tests,
interviews, you have to manage your academics as well, lot of club stuffs and lot
more. It was really difficult to manage all these, till I learnt how to do so. Every time
when I feel stressed or down, I’ll let out my thoughts to my parents and my friends.
Always only when you keep the stress with yourself, it hangs with you so let it go.

