Citi Interview Experience for Internship (On-Campus) 2022

Sanjay Pranao B G
2020115072
Information Technology

About the company:

Citi Solutions Center (CSC) is a global hub for innovation and operations within

Citigroup, providing comprehensive solutions and support across various functions like

technology, operations, finance, and risk management.

Overview of the Selection process:

The selection process included

1.  Online aptitude and coding contest

2.  Technical interview - Round 1

3.  HR - Final Round

Domains offered:

Although the specific roles were not explicitly mentioned, the candidates who got

selected in Round 1 were divided into two groups for offline interviews.

1.  Institutional Clients Group

2.  Enterprise Operations and Technology

Online aptitude and coding contest:

The coding contest was conducted on the SHL platform. It included 5 sections:

1.  Aptitude

2.  Logical Reasoning

3.  Verbal Ability

4.  Technical

5.  Coding contest

Each section had a set time limit, and the next section could only be accessed after

completing the previous one. Each section had a time limit of approximately 20 minutes

with MCQs except the coding contest which had a time limit of 1 hour.

Questions asked in Coding contest:

1.  Rat in a Maze

2.  Not exactly sure, but a question based on tree traversal

Offline Interview:

A total of two rounds: Technical in offline mode and HR in online mode were held at

CUIC.

Technical Interview:

The interview panel consisted of two members from the ICG Business Unit of Citi. They

looked at my resume first and decided to ask questions based on that. I had done a

project in Java, so the first asked me to give the implementation of the project at a high

level.

Later, they asked me questions related to arrays, queues and linked list. And finally,

they gave me a scenario for a shopping website and asked me to create an entity

relationship diagram for the tables needed for the website.

HR Round:

After clearing the technical round, I was assigned to a final round with an HR panel. Due

to some time constraints, the HR round was done as an online round, with the

interviewer from the Citi HR team. The HR was very friendly, and we began with a brief

introduction, discussing my interests and hobbies. He encouraged my passion for

gaming, which is quite unusual to hear in an interview. We also talked about Bollywood

and Kollywood, exchanging opinions on their film industries. The interview concluded

with a brief overview of my family. This round lasted around 10 minutes.

