INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE

Name: Subhadharshini K
Reg No: 2018115113

Company: Citicorp Services India Private Limited, Chennai

Month & Year: September 2021

Citicorp’s on-campus recruitment process consisted of 3 rounds: Online Test,
Technical Interview, and HR Interview. Eligibility for round 1 was based on CGPA. Students
were shortlisted for interview rounds based on their performance in the previous round.

Round 1: Online Test

The test was conducted on the Aspiring Minds (AMCAT) platform. Duration of the

test was 2 hours. There were 4 sections and each section had its own time limit. There was
no negative marking.

•  Quantitative Aptitude
•  Logical Reasoning
•  Technical MCQ
•  Coding (2 Questions)

First 2 sections had easy-level questions. Section 3 had questions related to time and

space complexities, OOPs concepts and debugging given code. In section 4, one of the
coding question was based on string concepts(difficulty: easy) and another was a graph
question(difficulty: hard). Solving atleast 1 coding question will increase the chances of
being shortlisted, provided one has a good score in first 3 sections.

Round 2: Technical + HR Interview

Students who got shortlisted for round 2 received a link for the interview. The

interview was conducted on Zoom platform, and there were 2 interviewers present. The
following were the questions I was asked (as far as I can remember).

1.  Tell us about yourself.
2.  Walk us through your projects.
3.  How do you come up with project ideas and how do you choose the domain?
4.  How is your project different from existing solutions? Given 2 minutes, convince us to

buy your project solution(IoT project).
5.  What is your favourite technology? Why?

(Further questions on my projects were asked based on my answers)
6.   What makes you stand apart from other budding software developers?
7.  What are your areas of improvement?
8.  How important is presentation skills? Is it something that you need to have for the

rest of your work life?

9.  Do you have any questions?

In the end, I asked a couple of questions regarding my role and career path in Citicorp.
During this interview, I wasn’t asked to solve any coding question (usually depends on the
interviewers).

Round 3: HR Interview

Students who got shortlisted for round 3 received a link for the HR interview. The
interview was conducted on Zoom platform. The following were the questions I was asked.

1.  Introduce yourself.
2.  Why Citicorp?
3.  Being an IT student, why do you prefer a financial services company over other

product-based companies?

4.  What is the biggest failure that you have faced so far?
5.  Do you have any questions?

Personal Tips

1.  Be polite and patient during the interviews. Always wear a smile.
2.  Try to have a conversation with the interviewer(s), rather than just answering their

questions.

3.  Do not hesitate to ask questions, when given the opportunity.

Best regards,

Subhadharshini K
(ksubha2706@gmail.com)

