INTERNSHIP EXPERIENCE
ANANYA K A
Dept. of IST

Company Name : Citi
Role: EO&T Intern

About Citi and the Role:

Citi Solutions Center (CSC) is a global hub for innovation and operations within Citigroup,
providing comprehensive solutions and support across various functions like technology,
operations, finance, and risk management. They contribute to the bank's ability to deliver
seamless financial services, supporting Citi's mission to be a trusted partner to its clients
globally.

Enterprise Operations and Technology (EO&T) within Citi Solutions Center (CSC) is the backbone
of Citigroup's global operations, responsible for delivering essential technology and operational
services that support the bank's vast network. EO&T at CSC focuses on developing and
maintaining the infrastructure that powers Citi's banking services, ensuring security, scalability,
and efficiency. This includes everything from managing data centers, cybersecurity, and cloud
computing to optimizing financial transactions and risk management systems. By leveraging
advanced technologies and global talent, EO&T within CSC ensures that Citi can operate
smoothly,
innovate continuously, and provide reliable, high-quality services to clients
worldwide.

Overview of the Hiring Process:

There were a total of 3 rounds of interviews which happened in CUIC and a coding test that took
place in the SHL platform.

There were a total of 3 roles offered to us from which we had to choose any one of our choice
before the coding test. The tests were curated specific to the roles so make sure you thoroughly
read the docs the company provides before opting for the role.

Online Coding Test

The online coding round was conducted in the SHL platform and had multiple sections,precisely
3. There was a time duration of 2 hours to complete the test.

First Section: This was a purely aptitude-based section where speed was the key. The questions
were MCQs and were of easy level but needed to be solved faster in order to gain an edge. Try
to go for option elimination here instead of going for the hard way of finding every answer as
that saves a lot of time.

Second Section: This was also a MCQ-based section where all the questions were tech-themed.
The main topics covered here were DSA, OS and DBMS. Just get your foundations thorough on
these topics and you’re done. Again, speed plays a major role here too, so find your own
strategies to get to the answer fast and look at various types of problems in your freetime.

Coding Section: This was of easy-medium level and there was ample time to solve the 2
questions given to us. But here’s a catch too..since the questions were of easy-medium level,
optimizing them could gain you extra points and yeah,the time matters too. So, I gave the best
approaches to solve the problems and was done with the test before time. Sometimes, we tend
to ignore the edge cases in order to finish fast, so ensure that all edge cases are covered while
thinking of a feasible solution.

14 of us were shortlisted for the interview process that happened at CUIC.

Interview Process

Round 1 - Technical Round: This round consisted of questions mostly from the Resume and
other general questions such as hobbies, projects, co-curriculars, motive behind the projects,
social relevance of the projects and some language and tech-stack-specific questions that were
used in the project. In this round,they mostly check for the validity of your Resume and the
experiences that you state ,so be very truthful about them. Also,make sure that you talk in
detail about all the projects or internships that you have done to a point where they can
visualize what your projects are about or their motto is. Try to have meaningful projects in your
resume in order to rule this round. Remember one thing, the interviewers want to help you, so
when they ask you any question, try to bring out your approach completely, just start off with it
and you will progress as you delve further and further into it! The first question for every round
is ‘Introduce yourself’ and the last question is ‘Any questions for us’. Try to keep a clear idea of
the answers for these questions beforehand.

Round 2 - Technical Round:
This round was a purely technical round where I was asked to
write code for a couple of questions of medium to hard level in the language of my choice.
Questions on projects were also asked from the Resume and this time it was much more in
detail, questioning the validity and functioning of the projects. Whenever they ask coding
questions, make sure you explain your approach in detail to them before writing and then start.

And always start with the brute-force approach and code your way to optimization. Toward the
end of this round, I was also asked a puzzle which involved aptitude and math that tested my
presence of mind.Focus on the logic to solve any problem and clearly define your approaches.

Round 3 - HR Round:
This round is the no-code round where your communication-skills,
teamwork, collaboration and conflict-resolution skills are tested. The HR asked me about my
projects here, but from a soft-skills perspective. All your knowledge about the company and role
is tested here.

A total of 4 of us were selected for the EO&T role .

General tips from my side:

Always keep your basics strong and keep revising them on a regular basis.
Read the complete role description thoroughly before applying for any company.
Ensure that you provide an optimized approach to your code and do it quickly.
Try to cover all edge cases that are possible for the given scenario as they eliminate the
issue of partial test cases getting done.
Pay attention to the PPT closely as they give you tons of points to talk about in the HR
round.
Complete the online test as soon as you can and don’t stare at the screen simply.
Before going for any interview, try texting the people working there or past people who
have worked there or people who have gone through the hiring process through
LinkedIn in order to get a complete picture of the process and what you can expect.
Try to focus on basics such as OOPS concepts, DBMS , DSA and OS , which means not
only the code but also the concepts involved behind that code.
Have 2 strong languages and keep the others as a standby. You don’t need to know many
languages,the depth of your understanding matters.
Never underestimate any question, it may sound simple but there is always a catch
attached to it.
Try looking for the company archives in geeksforgeeks etc before your interview.
Striver’s DSA datasheet and ACM’s CODE are good resources that can be used for
end-to-end preparation for all coding tests.

If you have any more queries, feel free to reach out
LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/in/ananya-k-a-735742232/

