INTERNSHIP EXPERIENCE FOR CITI BANK

S.ABIESHRI
2020115003

Company Overview

Citi is an American multinational investment bank,and has 2,649

branches in 19 countries. Citibank is the largest foreign direct investor in financial
services in India. The company came to our campus on 12/09/2022. The
eligibility for the online round is no current arrear and the CGPA should be 6.0
and above.It was open for all the branches. About 250 students were shortlisted
for the first round.Citi bank has recruited for various domains from our college
such as FXLM, RISK, SUPPORT, EOT. I was selected under the FXLM domain.
The Stipend given by  the company is 75,000.

First Round (Online Test for 2 hours): The test was conducted in AMCAT
platform and consisted of 4 sections:

1. Quantitative aptitude: 14 questions (14 minutes)
2. Logical Reasoning: 12 questions (16 minutes)
3. Technical MCQ: 25 questions (35 minutes)
4. Coding: 2 questions (55 minutes)

I was able to answer 90 percent of the MCQs correctly. There was no negative
marking. All questions are mandatory to complete. You cannot skip a question.

Coding questions:

1. Given a graph in the form of a network consisting of pipes which

transports oil to the storage units, determine the maximum amount of oil
that can be transported via the network at any given time.

2. We want to print a pattern where the number of lines will be given as

the input. For example if the input number is 4, then the output should
be

1*2*3*4
13*14*15*16
9*10*11*12
5*6*7*8

I have done 2 questions with all test cases passed. Partial outputs will not be
considered. So make sure that you complete at least one question with all test
cases passed.
From 250 students, 60 students were shortlisted for the next round.

Second Round (Technical for 30 minutes): There were two-panel members.
They asked me to introduce myself and asked me to explain the project that I
have mentioned in my resume. I have done the project on the blockchain
domain. They are so impressed  by my project. The project discussion went on
for 10 minutes. They asked me about the experience I got on my internship done
previously.They asked me what is meant by swap memory?They asked me what
my preferred language is and they started asking coding questions.I was asked
to write code to print all the leafs of the Binary Search Tree and to explain the
same. How to swap two variables without using a third variable. How to print the
values in the binary search tree in ascending order.I was just asked to explain the
logic. They asked me some OOPS concepts such as inheritance, types of
inheritance,method overloading and method overriding. Some real life examples
of method overloading,method overriding,stack. How to remove duplicates from
the array without using two for loops and without using any extra space. I was
asked the logic for how to implement a stack using  queue. I was also asked to
reverse the logic used by me to solve the problem mentioned before.Finally my
interview was ended and they asked If I had any questions for them. I asked
them two questions.

Out of 60 students, 35 students were shortlisted for the HR round.

Third Round (HR Talk 5-10 MINUTES):

It was a simple round with few HR and managerial questions.She started

the conversation with the question how was my day?. She asked me to introduce
myself. She asked me about my hobbies.To describe my short term and long
term goals.Why citi?. Out of 35 students, 23 were selected  for Intern.

