Internship Interview Experience – CITI

Shivaani S -2020115082

About the Company

Citigroup
bank and financial services corporation headquartered in New York City.

Inc. or Citi (stylized as citi)

an

is

American  multinational investment

Profile:

Mention  all  the  recent  projects,  put  courses  if  you  have  done  any,  keep  the  format  of  the
resume simple and formal. Try to keep your resume to one or maximum to two pages.

Rounds OA(2 hours):

It  consisted  of  5  sections-  Logical  Reasoning,  Mathematical  Aptitude,  Verbal  Reasoning,
Technical MCQs and 2 coding questions. The coding questions were:

•  Print  the  trapezium  pattern-  https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/program-to-print-the-

trapezium-pattern/

•  Generate  a  2d  array  with  a  given  integer  (increment  each  entry  by  1)  and  print  the

product of that array with its transpose.

Eg: if 3 is given and n=2 and m=2

Then the matrix would be 3 4

      5 6

I passed all the cases of the second question and 9/11 cases of the first question.

 62 students were selected for the next round.

Technical Round (30-45 mins):

Questions were based on my resume, about my projects. Other basic questions like what is a
data structure, give the application of a data structure were asked. I was also asked to write
the code for finding prime numbers in an array (I wrote the code using the usual brute force
approach and then was asked if any other ways can be used-it wasn’t optimal). I was asked
to describe the oops concepts. They also asked where I would want to see myself in the next
five years and if I had any questions for them.

Know your resume thoroughly. Know the basic concepts of OOPS, OS and DBMS.

About 35 were selected for HR.

HR Round:

This round lasted only for 5-10 mins. The questions were very general – tell me about yourself,
talk about your family, who is your motivator and what do you know about Citi.

23 students were selected for internship.

Know  whatever  you  put  in  your  resume.  For  basic  concepts  you  can  refer  interview  bit  or
geeksforgeeks  for  OS,DBMS  and  OOPS(like:  https://www.interviewbit.com/oops-interview-
questions/ ). For Coding: Leetcode, GeeksforGeeks,.

Look  at  the  GFG  archives  before  attending  the  interview  or  test  for  any  company.  It  really
helps.  If you don’t know the answer for a question, tell them your not sure or you don’t know.
Know  about  the  company  before  attending  the  interview.  Stay  calm.  Be  prepared  for  HR
questions like “why citi?”,”Your Strengths and weakness” and “what would you do when…”
situation type questions.

Shivaani S

9444257125

All the best!.

