AATHITYAN MARIRAJ- FTE IN CONGRUENT
SOLUTIONS PVT LTD.

ABOUT COMPANY:-

Congruent Solutions is a specialist and trusted partner for the retirement
plan industry. They strive to bring contemporary technology solutions and
offer plan administration services that help the retirement plan industry
solve its business challenges and be Ready for Tomorrow!

ROLE:-  DOTNET FULL STACK DEVELOPER ROLE

OVERVIEW OF THE PROCESS:-

ROUND-1:- ONLINE WRITTEN TEST

This was a tricky round. It was not a system test it was a written test but
quite a different and tricky one.

There were 5 Big and Long Answer questions.

1.  The First questions we were given a pseudocode  which was quite

long and we had to write the final output of the pseudocode.

2.  The next question was also similar to the first one but it was a code
with loops and recursive functions so finding the output was quite
tricky when compared to the previous one.

3.  The third one was a reversal of integers which was quite easy.
4.  & 5. These were pattern questions and we had to find the next

missing pattern. These questions were basically to test our analytical
and logical thinking skills.

This was a 4 hr long test.

ROUND-2:- ONLINE SYSTEM TEST

We were given 30 mcq sections covering topics such as
OS,DBMS,C++,JAVA AND SQL. They were mostly easy and
straightforward questions but we had to answer these 30 questions in 30
mins.

You have to be very strong in core concepts to clear this round.
Prepare from websites such as INDIABIX and INTERVIEWBIT.

ROUND-3:- TECHNICAL INTERVIEW-1

This was the third round. First mainly they asked in depth about  my
projects and slightly about my previous intern experience. Next they
concentrated on oops concepts. Watching mock interviews on youtube for
the role to which you are applying can be very helpful to clear this
interview.
Some of the questions asked to me are:-

1.  Introduce yourself .
2.  Explain about your project.
3.  What is oops?
4.  What is Encapsulation?
5.  What is the difference between function overloading and function

overriding?

6.  Reversal of a string?
7.  Difference between do and do while loop in python?

ROUND-4:- TECHNICAL INTERVIEW-2

This round they mainly asked questions from my resume and they asked
scenario based questions. Having a previous intern experience can make
you have a slight edge over others. If not then try to be more familiar with
your projects.Try maximum to explain your projects technically.

Some of the questions they asked me were:-

 RESUME BASED QUESTIONS:-
     1.What was your role in your internship?
     2.What are the tools and technologies you used in your internship?
     3.Since I was a data analyst in my internship they asked me to tell the
difference between a data analyst and a data scientist.
     4.What is Tensorflow?(since i used it in my project)

SCENARIO-BASED QUESTION..?
    In any situation have you ever thought that if you had more money then
you would have done your project better?

ROUND-5:-ONLINE HR INTERVIEW(15-mins)

This was the final round this was more like a confirmation round but there
were few hr questions asked by the interviewer like:-

          1.How was your overall interview experience?
          2.Why congruent?(***MOST IMPORTANT QUESTION***)
          3.What are your salary expectations?
          4.From when can you join the company?
          5.What do you expect as an employee from this company?

MY  PREPARATION STRATEGY

1.  I Studied on a regular basis and solved at least 2 leetcode questions
to be familiar with dsa.Striversheet is the best source that's available
if you want to learn all concepts clearly regarding dsa.

2.  To be more familiar with the technical concepts, I watched more
mock interviews in youtube channels that  helped me to say the
amount of content in each topic during an interview.

3.  In-case you are starting from basics in technical subjects then study
from websites such as interviewbit, geeksforgeeks and indiabix
which I  did in my initial stage.

4.  I tried writing mock tests for both coding and technical on the

internet.

5.  For arithmetic aptitude I referred to rs aggarwal book and for other

aptitude based questions I referred indiabix.

TIPS I FOLLOWED

1.This was my 5th interview experience in which I succeeded . I always
noted down the questions which I was not able to answer in my previous
interviews and prepared before going to the next interview.

2. I maintained a separate notebook for these placement subjects where I
noted down the detailed explanation of the concepts which I felt were
difficult.

3. I studied on a regular basis at least for 4-5 hrs effectively.

