Interview Experience

Name: Keerthana S
RollNo: 2018115047
Company: D. E. Shaw India Pvt. Ltd.

Round 1:

It was an online test consist of 3 sections

1)  General aptitude
2)  Technical aptitude
3)  Coding(2)

One of the questions asked :

Given an array, find no of possible combinations of A and B such that all the
elements to the left of A is lesser than that and all the elements to right of B
is greater than that.

Round 2 (Technical Interview – 1):

1)  I was asked to explain top two projects in my resume
2)  Coding question

Array1 = {2,1,2,5,7,1,9,3,6,8,8}
Array2 = {2,5,7,8}
Output = {2,2,5,7,8,8,1,1,3,6,9}
Question is how can I get the output array using Array1 and Array2. I
asked him few hints and derived at the answer => Array2 elements
that are present in Array1 should be printed first followed by
elements in Array1(in asc order) that are not present in Array2.
I was asked to write a code for it. I solved it using map and it passed
all the testcases

3)  Questions from dbms, os, sorting algorithms, oops

•  Asked two queries
•  Deadlock and it’s handling methods
•  Necessary condition for deadlock to occur
•  Belady’s anomaly
•  External sorting

•  Stable and unstable sort and asked to give real life scenario

for stable sort

•  Abstract class and few more questions from oops

Round 3 (Technical Interview – 2):

Since he asked lot of questions in between, I don't exactly remember all here is how
much I can recollect

1)  Coding question (Binary tree)

Find the sum of all the nodes present at the given level

2)  Coding question on graph

I was asked to tell the approach and all the possible testcases for the
specific problem. Also the testcases that generally needs to be
considered while creating a coding contest.

3)  Gave a puzzle to solve. He asked few more questions by expanding

its description.

4)  Asked few questions in OS

Take away:

The interviews mainly focus on testing the coding knowledge and the way I
approach the problem statement. Prepare to code in a limited time. Be cool
and interactive. Keep asking them questions until you understand it.

All the best!!!

Regards,

Keerthana S

