Edumba Vannia Raja T – Dover

About the Company

Dover is an industrial company, which is a conglomerate of 16 operating companies.

From the digital POV, it has several teams which cater to the software and digital
requirements of the opcos.

About the role

Every recruited candidate from campus placements from CS/IT background is
onboarded as a software engineer. You’ll get to work on full stack projects, train deep
learning models, devops. Each digital team uses a different full stack language based on
their requirements. So overall I can assure you that having strong full stack development
skills in any language can get you into dover.

Preparation Strategy

Prepare DSA well. Be strong in core concepts like Networks, OS and Database. Be
confident of all the projects you’ve put in the resume. Think of a problem which you’ve
solved in one of your projects, and deliver it to the interviewer stressing, how you solved
it, with your skills.

Placement Drive experience (online test, GD, technical and HR interviews)

Dover:

In online test I had 60 MCQs which covered math, aptitude and DSA. Out of 60

participants in the first round 14 got shortlisted for the interviews.

I had 3 sets of interviews. In the first round, questions were simple. He asked me a
simple DSA problem and asked me some simple questions from Networks and OOPS,
and asked a bit about my projects.

From 14, 4 people were shortlisted to the second round. In another 15 minutes I was
let known that I was shortlisted for the second round. In round 2, I was asked to explain
about a project in detail, which was network request rate limiter. Once he was done
asking questions about the project, he asked me about experience in java and what other
languages, I’ve used in full stack development. He asked questions pertaining to
software engineering principles and system design. And at the end since I had time, I
explained about my other projects as well.

From 4, 2 people were shortlisted to the third round. Again in another 15 minutes, I

was called for the HR round. I gave a short introduction. HR round mostly revolves
around the question of location preference and having an idea of doing masters. I
answered them aptly and that’s what I’d suggest you as well. From the  2 people in the
last round, I was offered placement.

Tips and Tricks

Core concepts knowledge, Projects, confidence :)

Preparation docs or playlists (if any)

Striver’s DSA sheet, SDE sheet and his videos

