                              NITHYASRI S R

About the Company
                   FedEx Corporation is a global logistics and transportation company and is
renowned for its overnight delivery services and innovative tracking systems. The
company operates through various segments, including FedEx Express, FedEx
Ground, and FedEx Freight, catering to diverse shipping needs. FedEx connects over
220 countries and territories, providing reliable solutions for businesses and
individuals worldwide. FedEx is a pioneer in leveraging technology to enhance
logistics efficiency and customer satisfaction. It is a trusted partner for e-commerce,
supply chain solutions, and time-sensitive deliveries.

Role : SDE Intern

Preparation Strategy

➢  I started my preparation in my 6th semester leave (2 months).
➢  Started with basics of DSA concepts(Arrays, Strings, LinkedList, Stack Queue,
Recursion) and then advanced concepts(Binary Search, Trees, Graphs, DP)

➢  DBMS and OOPs concept are important, side by side I covered that too.
➢  Computer Networks and Operating System questions depends on the company,

so I just learnt only basics of both.

➢  System design is very important.(Try practicing project system design)

Placement Drive Experience

1.Group Discussion

They will give a topic, and we have 2 minutes time to prepare for that. For us, they
gave topic “Data Driven Decision Making”. We have to speak about the topic for one
minute. If times’s up they’ll stop us and move onto next person, so we have to speak
only valid and important points (Instead of trying to speak only positive points, try to
speak about the challenges and drawbacks, it will be more useful).

If we want to add extra points, we’ll speak that in last.

After GD, we were asked to wait in that waiting room for 5 minutes. Afterthat, they
announced the names who are moving to next round (Tech Interview).

17 attended GD, 7 of us selected for interview.

2. Interview Round 1

Actually they told about GD only on that day, we didn’t know that the interview was
going to happen the same day.

Totally, there are 2 panels. We have to wait in waiting room, they will send us to panel
one by one.

We have to sent our resume in the chatbox. The interviewer will review our resume.

➢  He started with introduction and asked me to introduce myself.
➢  Asked about my internship project.
➢  Rate myself out of 10 (for each programming languages in resume).
➢  Given an integer array, modify the array such that for unique element in the array:

             1. If the element appears k times, it should be stored in k//2 times (integer
division).
             2. The remaining position in the array should be filled with -1.
             3. The modifications must be done in same array without creating a new array.
             Write a program to print the updated array.
             Constraints:
                   The array may contain both +ve and -ve integers.
                   The size of array is N, where 1 <=N<=10^5.
                   The input array should be modified in-place, and no additional arrays or
data structures are allowed.
             Example:
                   Input : [2,3,2,2,3,3,3]
                   Output : [2,2,3,3,-1,-1,-1]

                   Input : [1,1,1,1,1,1]
                   Output : [1,1,1,-1,-1,-1]

➢  If you are in a situation where you know that your opinion is correct/best. How

will you tell and convince others?

➢  If you ever felt that you are going in a wrong way and corrected it after that?
➢  What do you know about FedEx?
➢  Any questions for them?

3. MD Interview

➢  Introduce yourself
➢  Tell me about Internship project

➢  Internship overview. What are all the things u learnt in your internship? What are

the skills you developed?

➢  Have you worked with data? If yes, how?
➢  Tell me about the works you did beyond academics.
➢  If you were in a situation where you know, flood will come. What are all the

actions you take? And How will you protect those area people?

➢  What do you do in your college clubs?
➢  One thing you want to change in Anna University and why
➢  Do you have any questions?

After all these interview, 4 got selected for internship.

Tips and Tricks

➢  Solve DSA problems consistently
➢  Starts with basics and go to advance concepts
➢  Side by side, start preparing OOPs, CN , OS DBMS concepts
➢  Learn about system design
➢  Before going to the interview, refer previously asked interview questions of the

company so that you can get an idea of it.

Materials

➢  DSA – Take U Forward playlist (Strivers A-Z sheet and Strivers SDE sheet)
➢  OOPs – Jenny’s lecture
➢  Computer Networks , Operating System – Interviewbit questions
➢  DBMS – Jenny’s Lecture & most asked top 50 SQL queries (google it)

All the best!!!

