    INTERN DRIVE EXPERIENCE- FIDELITY INVESTMENTS

                                                               -SOUMYA R (IT)

About the Company:

Fidelity Investments is one of the leading financial services companies globally,
with a mission to help customers and clients achieve their financial goals.
Known for its strong work-life balance, Fidelity fosters a supportive and
inclusive environment. The team is collaborative, and the company is
committed to making a positive impact in the financial world.

PREPARATION STRATEGY:

For my intern drive preparation, I focused on competitive programming by
practicing problems on HackerRank and GeeksforGeeks. I stayed in regular
touch with Data Structures and Algorithms through YouTube lectures. I also
brushed up on concepts from core subjects like DBMS, Operating Systems and
Object-Oriented Programming. Additionally, I utilized the materials provided by
ACM(C.O.D.E Series) and ISTA.

OVERVIEW OF THE INTERN DRIVE:

Round 1: Online Assessment (Hirepro Platform)
This round consisted of four sections, each with its own time limit:

Section 1:
Multiple-choice questions on English, including reading comprehension,
sentence arrangement, synonyms, and more.

Section 2:
Multiple-choice technical questions covering topics such as Computer

Networks, Operating Systems, OOP, C++, Recursion, and Data Structures &
Algorithms (DSA).

Section 3:
Coding questions: There were two problems, one of medium difficulty and
another of a hard level, focused on Arrays and Strings.

Section 4:
Writing pseudocode: We were asked to write pseudocode/algorithms for two
problems. The time for this section was more limited compared to the others.

Around 54 students were shortlisted for the next round.

Round 2: Technical Interview (at CUIC) (30-35 mins)

This round involved questions from all core topics like DBMS, OOP, DSA, Cloud
Computing, OS, Computer Architecture and also in-depth questions from
projects and technical skills mentioned in the resume.

Around 25 students were shortlisted for the next round.

Round 3: HR Interview (at CUIC) (30-35 mins)

This round assessed both technical and behavioral skills. It primarily included
questions about role preferences and the reasoning behind those choices.

 12 candidates received internship offers.

TIPS AND TRICKS:

  Focus on improving your communication skills in English which is highly
important- Make sure your answers are to the point and do not make
them sound confusing.

  Practice competitive programming and DSA on a regular basis.
  Get a clear understanding of all the core subjects and keep brushing up

the concepts.

  Include only those projects and topics in your resume that you are

confident in, as the interviewer asks questions in-depth from whatever
you specify as your areas of interest.

  When the interviewer asks you if you have any questions for them

towards the end, please do ask questions. Only then the interviewer will
get to know you’re looking forward to being a part of their company.
  During the interview, stay calm and avoid panicking. Do your best in
answering all the questions. If you absolutely have no idea about
something, acknowledge it politely and express your willingness to learn.

  Before going to the interview, make sure you look into platforms like

InterviewBit and Glassdoor for previously asked questions specific to the
company. Also get to know what the company basically does as there
might be questions related to their business and operations.

  Every interview is a learning experience. Particularly, in my technical
round, the interviewer, besides asking questions, explained a few
concepts which were beyond my level stating that it could be of help at
some point of time in future. So regardless of the outcome, every
interview offers you a good learning opportunity!

