SHASHI S B – FTE IN ICANIO TECHNOLOGIES

ABOUT COMPANY-

Icanio Technologies offers comprehensive software development services encompassing
Web, iOS, and Android platforms, DevOps Services, AIML solutions, and QA services.

ABOUT ROLE-

Software Developer Engineer at Icanio Technologies is responsible for designing,
developing, and maintaining software applications using various technologies.

PREPARATION STRATEGY-

I started by learning Data structure and side-by-side I studied core subjects along with
aptitude. I used Strivers Sheet for DSA Preparation and for core subjects like DBMS, OOPS,
OS, CN., etc I used geeksforgeeks, javatpoint, w3schools. For aptitude I used R S Agarwal
and IndiaBIX.

PLACEMENT EXPERIENCE-

The placement process is an online test, technical interview and HR interview.

ROUND1 (APTITUDE + CODING):

This Round was conducted for 3 hours which happened at CUIC. There were around 15 to
20 Aptitude questions and 2 Coding questions. This test was conducted in coderbyte
platform. The first coding question is to implement switch sort on arrays and the second
question is Queen check problem which is a matrix question.

ROUND2 (TECHNICAL cum HR):

About 10 students were shortlisted for this round. This happened the next day at
CUIC. I was asked to introduce myself. Then the interviewer asked questions about my
projects and Internship. Then he asked questions on Data Structures, about my approach,
what data structure can be used, why and asked me to write the code as well. It was
mainly from arrays.

(I would like you to focus your preparation on Arrays and Strings as most of the

companies ask for this. Then try to go for linked list, tree, graphs., etc. Be strong in what
language you use for programming also). He then asked questions from OOPS and SQL.

Next was HR Interview. I was asked to introduce myself once again, then was asked
2 to 3 scenario-based questions and asked how to solve it. They also asked about my past
experiences and future goals.

ALL THE BEST!!!!!

