ICANIO TECHNOLOGIES

About Company:

Icanio Technologies offers a comprehensive range of services, including

software development, AI/ML solutions, cloud and DevOps services, quality

engineering, support, and training programs.

About Role:

A Software Developer Engineer at Icanio Technologies is responsible for

designing, developing, and maintaining software applications using various

technologies.

Preparation Strategy:

I have prepared aptitude (IndiaBix), arrays, and string (SDE sheet

geeksforgeeks) based questions for the initial coding round as I didn’t get any

proper resources about the previous test pattern about this company.

Technical round preparation was general preparation on core subjects like

OOPS, DataStructures, DBMS, OS, and CN, and also prepared on the projects

mentioned in the resume.

Overview of the process:

The interview process is an online test, technical interview, and HR round,

and 100+ students participated initially.

Round 1 (Aptitude and coding):

It was a 3 hrs online test that happened in CUIC. There were a few aptitude

questions and 2 coding questions, one was an array sort of question and the other

was a matrix question conducted in coderbyte.

1.  Return the minimum count to sort the number

2.  Return the number of moves where queen capture the king

Round 2 (Technical and HR):

10 members were shortlisted from the online test for a technical round

interview and for an HR round happened in CUIC, the questions asked in the

technical round were based on data structures, OOPS, and DBMS asked me to

solve an array coding question(in our convenient programming language I choose

python), 2 SQL queries, and a debugging question.

●  What is polymorphism

●  What is abstract class

●  What is hashmap

●  What is frontend and backend and list few technologies used in

frontend and backend

●  What is database and why it is required

●  Anagram of string without using inbuilt functions(coding)

●  Queries to create and insert, and update the table

●  Gave a program with 4 function and one main function and asked me

to explain the logic and print the output of each function

HR round is all about self-introduction, learnings from past interviews, and

future goals. The company is located in Tirunelveli so they ensured the relocation

too.

