Interview Experience

Name :  A. Murugan

Reg. No : 2018115059

Company :  Lister Technologies

Month & Year : OCT 2021

Lister Technologies Recruitment process contains four rounds and they offer
two packages:

1). Samurai Programmer – 9 LPA

2). Power Programmer – 7 LPA

Round 1 : (Online Test)

It contains general aptitude questions and two programming questions.

We can crack this round if we knew all the basic concepts in aptitude and
practice it.

They asked 2 coding questions. One is easy and one is moderate level question.
We can solve these questions if we practice programming regularly/daily in
GFG/Leetcode/HackerRank/HackerEarth.

The candidates shortlisted from Round 1 attended the PPT. 59 students
shortlisted to attend PPT.

Round 2: ( Behavioural Assessment)

It is a non-elimination round.

Round 3 : ( Techno-Managerial Round)

This round went for like 90 minutes.

Interview started with introduce yourself.

Then he asked to elaborate the project which I mentioned in introduce yourself.

I explained the project for 15 minutes and he asked questions from that.

Then he asked about my Final Year Project which we completed only less than
15% at that time. I explained about the Final Year Project and he asked some
questions and also give suggestions to improve it a bit. This discussion went for
like 15 minutes.

Then he asked me about how I am managing my time because I mentioned I am
part of 3 to 4 clubs and having some role to play in more than 2 clubs.

After that he started asking questions from Data Structures, Algorithms, DBMS,
Operating Systems, Computer Networks, Object Oriented Programming,
Software Engineering, React Js, Next Js, Ajax and some technologies I
mentioned that I have hands-on working experience.

In OS, he asked questions from Semaphore, Process Scheduling and Memory
Management.

In Software Engineering, he asked questions from Agile Methodology and some
basics.

He asked me to list various data structures and its applications.

He also asked SQL queries and some basic concepts from DBMS.

Finally Interview was over and he asked whether I have any questions.

 I asked him 3 questions at the end.

Be prepared or have some scripted answers for questions like introduce
yourself, some most common HR/Managerial questions asked in most of
the interviews ( Refer Google and Youtube), etc.

Have clear knowledge about your projects.

You must ask questions to the interviewers if you get a chance, because it
should be like two way conversation.

Round 4: (HR)

We made a Powerpoint to introduce ourself. So first she asked me to present the
PPT to introduce myself.

She asked questions about my family, strengths and weaknesses and other
typical HR questions. (Be prepared to answer all the HR interview questions
before the interview itself)

She asked some situation based questions.

I got full marks in online test so she didn’t asked me to explain the answers. She
asked how I prepared to answer all the questions correctly.

They have our answers as PDFs and they asked questions from that. Some of
my friends are asked to explain the submitted answers.

At the end, she asked whether I have any questions to ask and I asked some
questions to her from the Pre-placement Talk. Make sure you listen to the PPT
well.

Finally, I got selected and got offer for Samurai Programmer.

Note :

•  Don’t give-up and keep practicing code and aptitude.
•  Be prepared.
•  We should be at the right place at the right time to get selected so don’t
get frustrated and stop revising/preparing in the mid of the placements.

All the best and All is well !!!

