Ibrahim Navas S – NCR Voyix Interview Experience

About the company

NCR Voyix

NCR  Voyix,  formerly  known  as  NCR  Corporation  and  National  Cash  Register,  is  an
American company specializing in digital commerce solutions with a 140 years heritage.
In October 2023, NCR Corporation underwent a corporate restructuring, resulting in the
creation of two independent companies: NCR Voyix and NCR Atleos. NCR Voyix focuses
on  digital  commerce  solutions,  while  NCR  Atleos  concentrates  on  automated  teller
machine (ATM) services. In August 2024, NCR Voyix announced a definitive agreement to
sell its cloud-based digital banking business to Veritas Capital for $2.45 billion.

About the Role:

The  selected  students  are  provided  with  a  6  month  internship  based  on  the  candidate’s
performance, the intern will be converted to FTE. As a stepping stone for the technical career,
the interns will be made to work with teams and the tech stack will be allotted based on the
student’s interview performance. The candidates should clock a working hours of 40 hours
per week from Monday to Friday.

Overview of the Process:

The overall process consisted of
●  An Online coding contest in HackerRank platform

●

●

Interview Round 1 – F2F Technical interview (DSA, SQL, Full stack, Networks, OS)

Interview Round 2 – F2F HR interview (Based on candidate’s resume)

Round-1

⚫

First round was an online test conducted in HackerRank platform.

⚫  Question Pattern:

  Coding Questions – 2 (1 Easy, 1 Medium)
  MCQ – 30

▪

SQL

▪  Networks, Kubernetes
▪  OOPS
▪  OS
▪  Git

▪

Full Stack

⚫

The test is completely proctored and is for a duration of 90 minutes.

⚫

From the total of 200 candidates attended, 50 candidates were selected for the interview
rounds.

Round-2

⚫

⚫

⚫

⚫

First  round  of  the  interview  was  technical  round,  the  panel  will  be  of  maximum  3
interviewers.
This interview round will take 45-60 mins depending on the panel.
The candidate will be asked to give self-introduction and the following questions will be
asked based on the introduction.
For me, the topics covered during interview are:

  One DSA question

▪  Question – Check for a valid password without using Regex.
▪  Hint – Make use of ASCII values.

  One SQL query

▪  Question – Given 2 tables employee and salary, select the name of the
employee having the 2nd least salary from the salaries which are  greater
than the average salary.
▪  Answer - SELECT name FROM employee WHERE salary =

(SELECT DISTINCT salary FROM salary
    WHERE salary > (SELECT AVG(salary) FROM salary)
    ORDER BY salary LIMIT 1 OFFSET 1);

  Prominent theoretical questions from DBMS including the difference between
BASE, ACID, CAP, SQL vs MongoDB, NoSQL



 Questions regarding OS including AndroidOS, iOS, etc.,.

  Full Stack questions such as prominent Node commands, about package.json,
Hooks and Props from React, etc.,.

⚫  Always be bold and confident, express your areas of interest to the interviewer. 14 out of

50 candidates were selected for the next round.

 Round-3

⚫

⚫

Last round was HR interview, where a self-introduction must be given by the candidate
with plausible proficiency.
This interview round will take 30 mins depending on the panel.

⚫  One  of  your  projects  should  be  explained  to  the  interviewer,  it’s  to  evaluate  your

communication skills.

⚫  Make it as an interactive session with interviewer. Questions related to work environment

will be appreciated.

⚫  All the 14 candidates were selected in this round.

Tips for Preparation:

⚫  Always be confident in what you know.
⚫  Have a proper schedule which includes inter person communication training session.
⚫  Be thorough with what you have mentioned in your resume.

⚫

Practice DSA, DBMS regularly.

⚫  Have theoretical knowledge in topics such as Kubernetes, C#, .NET, Git.

Email: ibrahimnavas2003@gmail.com

Mobile No: 7010749313

LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ibrahim-navas-s-561b7b287

