Placement Experience - Nokia

Ezhil Dhiraviya J (2022 - 2026)

About Nokia:

Inﬁnera, a leading ﬁber optics company, was acquired by Nokia in February 2025.
Nokia’s  optical  network  solutions  provide  scalable,  secure,  and  reliable
connectivity,  enabling  operators  to  support  new  services  and  applications  while
simplifying network operations.

The  solutions  span  across  network  edge,  metro,  national,  long-haul,  and  subsea
deployments, offering smarter and more automated networks with reduced total
cost  of  ownership  (TCO).  By  supporting  next-generation  services  such  as  5G,
high-speed  packet  services  (400G,  800G,  and  beyond),  and  advanced  C+L  band
solutions, Nokia helps customers stay competitive and transform optical networks
into value-driven platforms for businesses and end users.

About the Role (Software Developer):

●  Work within an Agile development environment.
●  Develop,  test,  and  document  software  solutions  using  languages  such  as

C++ and Python.

●  Perform  analysis,  development,  and  automation  testing  of  software

modules.

●  Support integration of optical software with hardware systems.
●  Conduct basic data analysis and visualization of performance metrics.
●  Participate  in  code  reviews  and  team  discussions  to  adopt  best  practices

and contribute ideas.

Recruitment process:

The online assessment was held at CUIC and had 2 sections.
The MCQ section (45 questions) included Aptitude, OS, OOPS, DBMS, and CN.

1 coding question was asked. (Topic: Graphs)

●

  An  array  was  given  where  each  index  i  is  a  node  with  an  edge  from  i  to
arr[i].

●  The task was to return an array where ans[i] has the number of nodes that

can be visited, keeping the starting node as i.

I was able to pass all the test cases except 1 using a brute force approach (bfs).

Around 25 people were selected for the Software Developer role.
The  interview  consisted  of  3  technical  rounds  and  1  HR round. Each round was
eliminatory.
The  interviews  for  the  1st  and  2nd rounds were face-to-face for some and virtual
for others. It was random.

 Technical Round 1: (40–45 mins)

●  Mode: Virtual (MS Teams).
●  The  interviewer  asked  me  to  upload  my  resume  in  the  chat,  then  gave  a

●

standard introduction round (projects, strengths, weaknesses).
I explained my Data Structures project from the 4th semester, which used
a graph data structure with Dijkstra’s algorithm.

●  Screen sharing was not allowed, so I verbally explained the approach, ﬂow,

and the code.

●  Midway, I was asked the difference between stack and queue.
●  Another problem: Find the missing number in an array (range 1 to N+1).
●

I asked 3–4 questions at the end.

Technical Round 2: (1 hour)
The  interviewer  didn’t  ask  about  my  resume.  He  directly  asked  me  to introduce
myself  and  explain  my  favourite  project.  Again,  I  explained  my  Data  Structures
project. He asked many follow-up questions based on the key terms that I used.

Questions asked:

●  Explain your favourite project (DSA graph project).
●  How did you store the graph in your project?
●  Write the declaration line in which you declared the data structure to store

the graph. (vector of vectors)

●  To implement this in the real world, what other data structure can be used

other than a vector?

●  Which language did you use for coding?
●  Was the code entirely written by you?
●  Write the code that you wrote to store the graph.
●  What algorithm did you use to ﬁnd the shortest path?
●  Write the entire code and explain the algorithm.
●  He asked me to explain each and every line of code that I wrote.
●  Are you familiar with data hiding and other OOPS terminologies?

After asking a lot of follow-up questions, the interview ended well.

Technical Round 3: (Around 1 hour)

There was a panel of 2 interviewers.
The entire round was a pen-and-paper round.

After  asking  some  general  questions,  the  interviewer  questioned  me  about  the
vector search that was mentioned in my resume.

He asked some basic questions related to the Flask server.
I was asked if 5>>1 and -5>>1 are the same or different and to write their outputs.

Given  a  linked  list’s  head  with  one  node  connected  to  its  head,  my  task was to
ﬁnd  if  the  linked  list had a loop or not. I was asked to write the code for this and
explain the time complexity.
I suggested 2 methods.

Since the test case given to me was the case where the tail was connected to the
head,  I  used  1 pointer and wrote a code. I also suggested the 2-pointer approach
to detect loops in a linked list.

The interviewer moved to the next question.

https://leetcode.com/problems/coin-change-ii/description/
This is a DP problem. I started explaining it from the recursive solution and moved
into the DP solution.
He  asked  some  basic  questions  about  memoization,  top-down,  and  bottom-up
approaches.

https://www.naukri.com/code360/problems/sort-0-1_624379

https://leetcode.com/problems/sort-colors/description/

I was asked to solve the above 2 questions in the most optimal way. The question
was then generalized to sort an array. He asked me to think if I could apply some
counting logic here.

Other questions:

●  Explain the binary search algorithm.
●  Draw the graph for O(n) and O(n log n).
●  Which is better, 2*O(n) or O(n log n), and why?

Finally, the interview ended well.

After a few minutes, I was called back and asked a few questions from my resume.

 Questions asked:

●  Self-introduction
●  How were your previous rounds?
●  What were the rounds focusing on?
●  Rank your top 3 skills.
●  Are  you  comfortable  working  with  the  tech  stack  mentioned  by  the

company in the PPT?

●  On a scale of 1 to 5, how much would you rate C++ and why?
●  Explain your favourite project with reason.
●  On a scale of 1 to 5, how much would you rate your Python skills?
●  Some logical questions were asked based on my projects.
●  What were your team projects and mention your team members’ names.
●  Apart from DSA, what other roles are you conﬁdent about?

Round 4: (HR round, 15 to 20 minutes)
Questions asked:

●  Self-introduction.
●  How were the technical rounds?
●  What was the overall comment about the previous rounds?
●  Are you sure about the role in which you are going to work?
●  Tell me about your personal details (family details).
●  How did you make yourself better compared to the previous day?

I gave my interview experience about the SAP Labs interview that I did the
previous day, and it was noted on my resume.

●  Many follow-up questions were asked from this.
●  This included: how many rounds did you attend in the SAP Labs interview?
●  What was the thing that you corrected to do better for this interview?
●  They also questioned me about the hackathons I had attended.
●  Joining B.Tech IT, what are the things that you are conﬁdent about?
●  Finally, they asked me if I had any questions.

Finally, 4 people were offered the role of Software Developer..

Tips for interview:

1.  Be conﬁdent.
2.  Start the interview with a smile and conﬁdence.
3.  Explain very clearly.
4.  Don’t say even a single word if you are not conﬁdent about it.

5.  If  you’re  asked  a  question  you  don’t  know,  it’s  okay  to  let  the  interviewer

know you’re not sure.

Preparation strategy:

I followed strivers a2z DSA playlist for DSA.

1.
2.  Try to practice leetcode 150 and SQL 50.
3.  Be consistent in your preparation. Try to learn each and every solution from

brute force to optimal solutions.

4.  Brush  up  on  core  concepts  including  DSA,  OOPS,  DBMS,  OS,  and  CN

regularly.

5.  Discuss solutions with your friends to get clarity if you have any doubts.

Stay positive during your internship and placement season.

Do not get stuck in peer pressure.

Don’t get upset if you do not get the company that you wished for.

Be consistent with your preparation.

My  suggestion
internship.

is:  never  stop  preparing,  even  if  you  get  your  summer

Remember  that  every  ﬂower  blooms  only  in its season, and there is a season for
every ﬂower to bloom. So never lose hope. Prepare rigorously so that nobody who
interviews you will think of rejecting you.

For people who are already preparing, great job, you are already on the right track.
For people who are not, there will never be a better time than now for you to start.
So start preparing right away.

Wishing you all the best.

If you have any doubts about the company, preparation, or anything else, feel free
to contact me anytime.

Regards,
Ezhil Dhiraviya J (2022-2026)
8610543936
ezhildhiraviya@gmail.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/ezhil-dhiraviya-j-0b97a9272

