T E C H N O L O G Y   D E V E L O P M E N T   P R O G R A M   A S S O C I A T E   A T   O P T U M

ROLE:

Full Stack Engineer

ABOUT THE COMPANY:
Optum, part of the UnitedHealth Group family of businesses, is a leading
information and technology enabled health services company serving more
than 132 million consumers, delivering the right care when and how it’s
needed. We are dedicated to evolving health care so everyone can have the
opportunity to live their healthiest life.

ABOUT  THE ROLE:
The Technology Development Program (TDP) at Optum begins with a 4-
week bootcamp, followed by a 12 month development experience that
includes two 6-month rotations and concludes with a grad placement. As a
TDP Associate, you’ll gain invaluable experience across a variety of domains,
benefit from mentorship by technology leaders, and engage in networking
and collaboration opportunities across the technology organization. The
program’s cohort-based structure fosters a more personalized employment
experience, helping to build community and drive engagement beyond that
of a traditional hire.

OVERVIEW OF THE PROCESS:
The overall process consists of:

An online test
HR Round – in CUIC
Technical Interview – in CUIC

ONLINE TEST:

This assessment consisted of a single question (full-stack based), and the most
important aspect was that you were allowed to use your preferred tech stack
from a predefined list of stacks. The question had multiple tiers of
requirements and was graded based on your ability to attempt all the
subsections. The highest-scoring attempt was considered as the final score.

Points were awarded even for partial solutions, so candidates were
encouraged to submit their code even if they were unable to complete
everything.

This was an AI co-piloted assessment, similar to the Copilot version
(Cosmo), which was provided to help you complete tasks more efficiently.
You were expected to make use of the AI co-pilot as much as needed.

Note: *This assessment was unlike those of the previous years.

*Make sure you use check the mails sent from the company regarding

the assessments.

HR ROUND : (30 mins approx.)

This round was so easy to clear as the HR who interviewed me was so chill
and only a normal  convo – like questions were asked. It was to make sure
your English communication is good.

Introduce yourself
Asked about native , and how are you adapted to Chennai
Hobbies and interests
Apart from that , what do you do?
Clubs and participations

How do you manage along with your studies
Projects

  Why optum? If it is your fav, why?

Any questions for her?

Note: *Communicate well. Don’t panic.

TECHNICAL INTERVIEW : (1:45 hrs)

My interviewer is a backend developer at Optum (one of our IT department
alumni), a very knowledgeable and experienced person.
He asked to introduce myself and proceeded on with the tech questions.
OOPS, DBMS, SQL, and DSA was concentrated. Networks wasn’t a part but
doesn’t mean we can neglect it. Some companies ask networks in deep too. Be
very clear in your projects.
OOPS:
           The regular questions like abstract class, interface, polymorphism and
how is it in java,c++ and python. Refer gfg and your textbooks.

DBMS SQL:

•  Two simple queries were asked.
•  Normalization, joins, indexing, and some more.,
•  Explain- SAAS, PAAS, IAAS

Since it is a full stack role , I brushed up the concepts regarding the web dev
part also.
Every question he asked was through my resume. He kept on striking out the
part that were done asking for. Eg questions:
•  Differentiate html and React
•  Why MongoDB is mostly used in your works?
•  How do you secure API?
•  Why does a backend infrastructure is required?
•  Why a page suddenly logs out if unused for some time?
•  What are APIs and why do you need that?

•  What happens when we build a project? What does the build folder

contain?

•  How many HTML files are there in react, how does this html file work

in react?

There were more built on questions from the answers I gave.

DSA:
      Second smallest number in the array.
      Generate all the subarrays given an array.
Questions like why optum? Any questions for me? were asked.

*Use brute force too but I forgot it at the moment yet the interviewer was
happy.
*One advice from the interviewer: Learn everything in depth.

TIPS:

•  I documented materials used for studying and revised periodically.
•  Used strivers A-Z sheet for DSA.
•  Solved SQL 50 in leetcode.
•  Learnt core concepts (OOPS, SQL, DBMS, CN, System Design.,)
•  Have good projects in hand .. would be a great hit in interviews. My
projects mostly aligned with the company’s domain and was of great
help.

•  Sharing ideas and learning with friends is important.
•  After  attending  each  online  tests,  if you  were  not able  to  solve  the

question, try it aftermath the coding test.

•  Use your 6th sem holidays efficiently.
•  Be genuine. If you don’t know the answer accept it. Believe me,my

interviewer taught me those.

•  It doesn’t matter if you fail;make sure to fail better the next time and

eventually you will pass.

Maybe you are waiting for a bedtime story; meanwhile, the universe is
writing a fairytale for you.
All the best for your placements and feel free to contact me!

9 people(including me) got placed.
Contact Information:
Name: Subi Pinsha P
Mobile No: 8825712793
EmailId: subipinsha@gmail.com
LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/in/subipinsha

