Interview Experience

Optum, Gurgaon / Hyderabad - Optum_Campus Hiring

Role: Full Stack Engineer

Round 1 :

Online test:

Online test took about 1.5hrs. It consists of 4 sections each focusing on Aptitude, Cognitive thinking,
English Grammar and one Coding Question. The first 3 sections are of easy to intermediate level. The last
One coding question was of Medium level (as of Leetcode). The question is like to

“The game: there are N players, and Player P starts with the ball. The goal: Pass the ball around but
make sure after X passes, it’s back in Player P's hands.

One rule: you can’t pass the ball back to the same person you just got it from. Keep it moving and mix
it up”

Note: A game is considered as "complete" if the ball ends up with the player
who started it.

input1: An integer value N, representing the number of
players,
input2: An integer value P, representing the player who starts
the game.
input3: An integer value X, representing the maximum number of moves allowed to pass the ball.
Output Specification:
Return an integer value representing the number of possible ways to complete the game.
input1: 3
input2: 2
input3: 4

Output: 3

Solution: I did used the brute force that involves starting from one person and then implemented DFS
algorithm starting from the player P as they mentioned and explored all the possible ways.

Around 59 students got shortlisted(including myself)

Round 2 : HR Interview

The HR interview is pretty easier, it was conducted in cuic (but virtual), cuic provided everything for
attending the interview all you need is to prepare only. The interviewer asked to introduce myself and
asked basic managerial questions related to the projects like

“How you do manage conflicts with your teammates?”

“What approach you used for learning?”

“How do you face failure?”

Tips: The interviewer expects you to be honest and he/she doesn’t expect any fake stories. So be honest.

Round 3: Technical Interview

The technical interview takes off with casual discussion on academics and some basic questions like

“why you choose IT?”
“why you choose optum?”

“Optum is a product or Service company?”(listen to their preplacement talk properly)

Then the actual tech questions begin. He asked about the tech stacks I used to make the projects

I used mern, flutter with dart and etc,. He asked me more and more on their fundamentals and
differentiating between tech stacks.

Then he asked the following:
“Buy and sell stocks (second level ) available in leetcode. It is find the no of ways to attain the max
profit).”

I told him the  dynamic programming approach but he was satisfied with recursion code itself.

“Print the output and tell the no of tuples in output after joining the two tables with all types of joins”

“Suppose if you have server that is accessed by multiple clients simultaneously, how will you ensure
the efficieny?”

I believe I have answered the above question correctly. At last he was satisfied with me .

Tips : Be prepared with some questions that you can ask back to the interviewer at last. Then prepare for
the core concepts and wire your brain to solve problems by practicing regularly.

16 got selected(including myself)

Thankyou for reading this article. Hope you find something useful ✨

