Ramco Interview Experience

                                                         - Arun S

About Ramco:

Ramco Systems is an Indian multinational enterprise software

company headquartered in Chennai, specializing in cloud-based

solutions. It is widely recognized for its Global Payroll and HR

software, which serves numerous large corporations across diverse

industries.The company also provides advanced Enterprise Resource

Planning (ERP) and Asset Management solutions, with a strong focus

on the aviation and logistics sectors. Leveraging modern

technologies like AI and automation, Ramco aims to streamline

complex business processes for its clients. With a global presence, it

operates across several countries, including the US, Canada, Europe,

and the Middle East.

About the Role:

Project Trainee for first 6 months then full time employee. That’s it. It
is all that i was informed. (later in the interview i was informed that i
will work on any kind of technology based on the project we would
assign to)

Selection Process:

Day 1:

Online Assessment

Day 2:

Offline Written Assessment

Technical round 1

Technical round 2

Round 1: Online Assessment

[  1 hr 30 mins]

The online round has 2 coding questions:

1) Related to Linked list(Medium)

2) Related to Recursion(Hard)

The only condition is to write the code in “C”. That’s it.

Round 2: Offline Written Assessment

[  1 hr 30 mins]

We were given pen and paper and asked to write code for the 3
coding question in any language.

The question are like easy, medium and hard and each carry
different score. I finished first in about half an hour but i didn’t think
there is any special mark for the time taken to complete or anything.
I got the easy one wrong and the other 2 correct. Mostly solving 1 is
enough to move to the next round but Every rounds score will be
taken for the final selection and based on my assumption the higher
the score you have in the initial rounds the easier the following
rounds would be.

Round 3: Technical Round 1

[  1 hr ]

The interviewer started with the basic standard introduction
questions then she started to ask questions in all the core subjects
(DBMS, OS, Networking, OOPS) everything is a standard question
like “What is polymorphism? Diff btwn runtime and compile time
polymorphism, What is context switching”,...)
Asked the basic overview of my projects.

For others they also asked some general quizes.

Round 4: Technical Round 2

[  1 hr 30 mins]

In the last round i was interviewed by the VP of the company
through online. He asked 1 puzzle
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/aptitude/puzzle-distribute-the-
water/

and 1 simple coding question about counting the frequency of the
characters in the given string and some basic questions

For others they have also asked the indepth of their projects, system
design, Core, API, and what not. This round was totally based on
who is your interviewer.  There is no HR round in Ramco but it may
be included for the upcoming batches as the total structure of
interview is different for each year.

My Preparation Strategy:

For DSA i followed strivers A-Z sheet and his youtube channel . Have
a separate note and for each question you solve write the question
and the ways to solve it with diagram if needed to revise it before
interview. This is not just for this placement season but will help you
throughout your career. “Striver is the best”. Anyway nowadays even
striver sheet became old , always search for new sheets for new
coding questions.

For core important topic , i used gemini and chatgpt and for indepth
concepts go for geeksforgeeks. Having a written mindmap for each
subjects would be usefull.

For quizzes i used the geeksforgeeks (Must for Ramco interview)

For projects, the one i am going to suggest is the best way . Just
upload your project description, description you
put in resume and the code(if possible) to the
gemini and ask to do “Deep research” to list all the
possible questions that might be asked from this
project . Trust me ,it is all you need . The questions
i prepared where the exact questions that were
asked for me in interviews like Ramco, Apple,
Netradyne, ... Most important thing is to built a
story for every choice you made through out your
project (Just make it up)

Have notes for each project like this -->

Previous Interviews list:

Internship: De Shaw, Fidelity, Accenture

Placement: Tekion, Netradyne, Apple

Key Suggestions and Tips from My Experience:

Take notes of everything you learn so that you won’t forget and it’s
easy to revise. If you spent 2 months learning something and after
10 days you don’t remember most of it , you better use that 2
months watching some good series. So take notes.

For most of the interview, the main focus would be DSA and project
so spend most time to work on it. Start preparation as early as
possible.

For project, initially tell the overview of the project ( in STAR method)
and if asked for indepth explanation, ask for paper and explain the
workflow by drawing the Architectural diagram or workflow of the
project.

For HR interview just speak like you live and die for the company.
Learn about the company and “Why you want to join them?”. I
especially fussed up this round for Netradyne and Apple.

On the interview day, If you know the PR , ask him to assign you to a
good panel if possible .Based on my experience, Senior interviewer
won’t expect much from the freshers so they will select you even if
you mess up something. Ask the ones who interviewed before you
what they were asked because most the time the questions will be
repeated. If you didn’t know the answer don’t just say “I don’t know”.
Just say something related to it and mention that you will learn
about it. If you are explaining your project , “confidence” is the
answer . Hope that your interviewer is not a specialist in that
domain. Interviewers are also people that works in a company in a
specific domain like AI/ML, blockchain, AI agents.... Only some
people know all the domain (Thats your bad luck there). Even more
better option is to know the name of the interviewers in the panel
on the interview day by any means(ask the PR or the person who
went to the interview first) and search their name in linkedIn to
know where their expertise lies. If you have knowledge in those
domain use it to impress them else don’t even talk about those
topics.

Contact Information:

Name: Arun S

Mobile No: 9629147418

EmailId: arunarun8055007@gmail.com

LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/arun-sundaramoorthy/

