Campus Recruitment Experience – SAP Labs

About the company:

SAP (Systems, Applications, Products in Data processing) is a German multinational company, headquartered

in Walldorf, Germany. Founded in 1972, the company is the world’s largest vendor of Enterprise Resource Planning
(ERP) software, integrating business-critical processes like finance, human resources, accounting, supply chain and
analytics into a unified system.

About the role:

The position offered was Developer Associate (Software Design and Development) with placement in
the SAP S/4HANA product line, the company’s flagship ERP suite. S/4HANA is built on SAP’s in-memory database and
serves as the digital core for enterprises, meant to cover all day-to-day processes of an enterprise and core
capabilities.

Recruitment Process:

1.  Online Assessment:

Questions:

•  Adjust the multiset of {0,1,2} elements by additions or deletions until each element’s frequency equals

its value.

•  Given an array of maximum heights of skyscrapers, return a strictly unique set of actual skyscraper

heights. Validity is guaranteed; any correct solution suffices.

•  Duration: 100 minutes
•  Candidates: ~280
•  Shortlisted for Interview: 89

2.  Technical Round I:

The discussion here was focused on the projects and skills listed on the resume. There were also questions from
DSA, OS, DBMS, and system design.

DSA:

•  An array-based DSA question based on odd and even indices which I don’t recall fully. I explained my

approach and had to write out the full code in a language of my choice.

DBMS:

•  The database schema of one of my full-stack projects was inquired about.
•  Design the normalized schema as well as the optimal query for a given scenario.

System Design:

1

•  The question was framed as a scenario but it was to design a ticket booking system to prevent multiple

bookings of the same seat.

•  Duration: 1 hour
•  Shortlisted: ~35

3.  Technical Round II:

There were two DSA questions:

•  Design an algorithm for random number generation.
•  The second one was a modified graph ordering problem under constraints. Since I was able to come up

with the optimal solution early on, I was not asked to code it out.

There were a variety of extended questions from core subjects and my projects such as:
•  RESTful API design
•  How to remediate corrupted JWT tokens?
•  Explain different types of access control vulnerabilities

•  Duration: 1.5 hours
•  Shortlisted: ~15 + waitlist

4.  Managerial Round:

This round was focused on my behavioural and situational skills—how I would deal with conflicts within team
and with upper management, what I would do if I were leading a discordant team, etc. Current affairs were
discussed. When I mentioned the industry trends I was following, there were a lot of follow-up questions that
probed for depth of understanding and critical analysis. Additional topics included opinions on AI regulation,
personal strengths and weaknesses, and approach to team leadership.

•  Duration: ~40 minutes

5.  HR round:

This round included one technical question related to a project and a set of personal questions. There was a
briefing on my role, the department I'll work in, team, compensation, relocation, reimbursements, etc.

•  Duration: 30 minutes
•  Final offers extended: 10

General tips:

1.  Prepare core subjects (DSA, DBMS, OS, CN, OOPS) at an applied level.
2.  Think aloud and communicate concisely. Interviewers are more interested in your thought process rather

than the perfect solution.

3.  Always clarify context with the interviewer before proposing the solution.
4.  Be transparent. List only skills you actually possess and say “I don’t know” when you don’t.
5.  Use the closing discussion to evaluate what they’re offering you. The ROI is mutual.

2

6.  An interview is a two-way discussion of fit between you and the organization, not an evaluation of individual

worth.

Wishing you success in your future endeavours.

Best Regards,

Gowthami Kandhasamy (IT 22-26)

3

