Placement Experience

Name: Raghav Swaminathan

Roll Number: 2018115083

Company: Searce Inc.

Placement Rounds: 4

Job Role Offered: Applied AI Consultant

Placement Experience in Detail:

1.  Round 1: Online Test (45 questions, 60 minutes)

Had three sections – Quantitative, Logical and Data Analysis questions. The questions were
pretty easy, just brush-up basic math concepts and you’ll be able to ace the test. If you’re
someone who’s preparing for GRE/GMAT/CAT, the questions would be more or less
relatable.

2.  Round 2 (1 hour): Core interview questions were more inclined towards Product

Management/Business Analysis. I was also bombarded with various scenario-based
questions. A few notable questions that I can recollect are:
1.  Tell us about yourself
2.  Online test experience and my rating on a scale of 1-10
3.  Hobbies and Leadership Experience
4.  Academic Projects Worked On
5.
6.  An extended problem statement was given to me based on one of my internship

Internships done and achievements

projects, and I was asked to put myself in the shoes of a Product Manager, do a quick
requirements analysis, build a solution from scratch, provide feasible features, how it
would improve CX, and explain the relevance of those features in solving the problem
(was cross-questioned, where I had to convince the interviewer why the
features/solutions I suggested were more efficient in comparison to solutions that
already exist)

7.  Potential Industries/Markets that any consulting company should target to solve more

AI based problems for clients and why (don’t just pick random industries. For instance, if
you’re picking the Healthcare or E-Commerce, try to pick a pre-existing problem in that
industry and explain how there’s scope for solving more business problems in that
industry)

8.  Review of Searce Products in Cloud, AI, and Analytics
9.  What would I do if I just won a million dollar lottery – investment strategies and whether
I would continue working (be as smart as you can in answering such a question, as its
directly meant to test your character and the core competencies that you have
mentioned on your resume)

10. What technical skills I brought to the table and how they were relevant to the job role I

was applying for

11. Strengths and weaknesses
12. Why I wanted to join Searce
13. Questions I had for them (your chance to bombard them with all the questions you have
about the job role, the company, the industries they cater, your interview performance,
etc.)

3.  Round 3 (1 hour): Technical Interview of sorts, where I was asked to talk more about my
projects and internships. I was further asked to explain the algorithms I used for all my
projects and was further questioned on the UX, usefulness, and deployment of all my
technical projects. In the process, I was given a brief introduction to all the available job
roles that were offered and constantly assessed if I was the right candidate. A few notable
questions that were asked are as follows:
1.  Explain something about yourself not mentioned on your resume (this gives you a hint
that you need to reserve 5-10% of your resume content for such buffer scenarios)
2.  Explain technical projects (I volunteered to be elaborate about the problem statement,
existing problems, motivation, competitor analysis, SWOT analysis, technical approach,
project outcome – PoC/Research Paper/Product/Prototype)

3.  Questioned about practicality of certain features in my projects, with comparison to real

time applications such as Instagram, Facebook, Snap Chat and Reddit

4.  Given problem statements and was asked ML solutions along with the algorithms I’d use

and why I picked the approach I proposed

5.  Opinions on whether I would charge customers for any kind of paid service on social

media,  why I would do so, examples of real-time scenarios and the kind of paid services
model I’d develop for content/software based on a B2C model

6.  Justify why I was the right fit for a consulting role
7.  Was asked certain technical concepts that were used in their products
8.  Current Searce products were explained to me, and I was asked for product reviews
based on what I understood and my feedback on the method that they used to
approach the same

9.  Opinions on whether I would pursue my hobbies as a professional interest and was

asked to justify the same

10. At the end, I voluntarily asked for feedback on my interview and loopholes on my

resume – very useful in building a rapport with your interviewer as a future industry
acquittance/contact

4.  Round 4 (20 minutes): This was the final interview round for me, (though a lot of other
selects has a 5th round too) and it was a HR discussion. I was asked to talk about my
character, my vision, what I intend to achieve at Searce, why I would want to join Searce and
what made me choose the role I opted for (considering my technical background). I was
finally offered the job, and we further went on to discuss my career growth at Searce, how
Searce evolved to what it is today and what the daily work life of a Searcean would be like.
The interview ended with me being asked my preferred job location and being informed that
we’d be notified soon about our offer letters.

Overall Experience: It was a unique interviewing experience, with comparatively longer interviews
(probably because of the job role). My interviewers were very chill, friendly and were acceptive
towards constructive criticism from my end. My advice to those sitting for placements is not to
worry or evidently show that you’re nervous. Interviews are just to get to know you better, it’s not
the end of the world. There is always a plethora of interviews lined up for students. Also, while being
confident, if you don’t know something, accept the same with pride along with explaining how you’d
work towards filling in the gaps, as its your chance during the interview to learn something awesome
from someone with real-time industry experience. Finally, do note that you might be the best at
something. However, never let your ego get the better of you during an interview. Your aim is not to
just tell interviewers that you’re the best, but your aim has to be to prove it to them and make them
understand why you’re the best and the kind of an asset they’d miss if they don’t pick you.

