          HEMATHARSINI E - SecureW2

                      (6 Months Intern + FTE)

About the Company:

          SecureW2 is a cloud-based network security solution that
provides certificate-based authentication for Wi-Fi, VPNs, and enterprise
networks. It eliminates the need for passwords by using digital
certificates, enhancing security and preventing credential theft.
SecureW2 seamlessly integrates with identity providers like Google,
Azure AD, and Okta, enabling efficient and secure user authentication. It
supports 802.1X authentication, helping organizations implement
password less network security for better protection. Widely used in
universities, enterprises, and government institutions, SecureW2
ensures secure access to wireless and wired networks.

Selection Process:

Round 1: Online Coding Test at CUIC

          The online test consisted of five questions with a total duration of
two hours. Three questions were easy, the fourth was moderately
difficult, and the fifth was based on dynamic programming. The results
were announced on the same day.

Technical Round 1: (at CUIC)

          This interview was mostly based on my resume. They asked about
my recent project, the technologies I used, and concepts like OOPs and
SQL. They also asked about my hobbies, and since I had mentioned
writing verses in Tamil, they requested me to recite some verses and
explain their meaning. The interview lasted for 20 minutes.

16 members were selected for the next round.

Written Coding Test: (at Securew2 Office)

               The written test lasted for 1 hour. We were provided with pen
and paper and given four questions.

1.  Find the difference between the sum of the main and secondary

diagonals in an N × N square matrix.

2.  Find and count all anagram pairs in the substrings of a given

string.

The remaining two questions were situational problems that could be
solved using arrays.

The results were announced after 2 hours. The students were divided
into two roles: Software Engineer and QA Engineer. I was selected for
both the Software Engineer and QA Engineer roles.

Technical Round 2: (at SecureW2 Office)

             For the Software Engineer role, they asked me about my
projects and their technical concepts, normalization, joins, and the
difference between binary and linear search.

           For the QA Engineer role, the Interviewer asked me to “Introduce
myself”. Then he asked about technologies used in my projects. He also
gave me a puzzle to solve.
Puzzle:
There are 2 jugs with 4 litres and 5 litres of water respectively. The
objective is to pour exactly 7 litres of water into a bucket. How can it be
accomplished?

Suggestions:

->I started my preparation only after taking leave in the 6th semester.
But it would have been better if I had started preparing earlier.
->I practiced coding using Striver's sheet.
->Speak as confidently as possible in the interview, that's the most
important thing.

->Instead of saying you don’t know the answer, try to talk about a related
topic. And one more thing I would like to say: I’m not sure if this is
correct, Language is more important than Knowledge.

!!! What is meant for us will definitely come to us. It may be
delayed, but it will never be denied.

