ABIRAMI S V – INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

Intern + FTE in SecureW2

About the company

SecureW2 is a SaaS Cybersecurity company pioneering the development of certificate-driven
enterprise security. It specializes in passwordless security for wired, wireless, VPN, and ZTNA,
and application security, ensuring an organization is protected from credential and data theft.
Their clientele ranges from Peloton, STMicroelectronics, The Pokemon Company, Glassdoor,
American Red Cross, Freshworks, Harvard University, and many other organizations across the
globe.

About the role

Role: Software Developer

A  Software Developer  is  responsible  for  the  design,  development  and  maintenance  of  web
applications and websites. Would work on both front end and back-end development as full
stack  developer.  Responsibilities
include  coding,  designing  UIs,  collaborating  with
stakeholders,  testing  applications,  troubleshooting  problems,  maintaining  applications,
documenting code and research.

Overview of the process

•  Round 1 – Online Coding Test (in CUIC)
•  Round 2 – Technical Interview 1 (in CUIC)
•  Round 3 – Written Coding Test (in SecureW2 Office)
•  Round 4 – Technical Interview 2 (in SecureW2 Office)

ONLINE CODING TEST

The online coding test consisted of 5 questions divided into 2 sections: 3 easy questions and
2 hard questions. The easy section focused on basic array problems, while the hard section
had dynamic programming problems. The test duration was 2 hours.

Results were announced immediately after the test and interviews for shortlisted students were
conducted shortly thereafter.

TECHNICAL INTERVIEW 1

This  round  was  mainly  based  on  my  resume.  The  interviewer  asked  me  detailed  questions
about the projects I had worked on including why I chose certain technologies over others and
the challenges faced. He also asked some basic questions about Spring Boot and AngularJS.

Then I was asked to explain the logic for simple problems like binary search. The interviewer
was happy with my answers and asked if I had any other job offers and if I would accept the
job if selected. The interview ended on a good note.

The  results  were  announced  the  next  day  and  the  shortlisted  students  were  invited  to  the
SecureW2 office for the further rounds.

WRITTEN CODING TEST

The test included 4 questions and we were asked to write the code on paper in our preferred
programming language. One question involved finding the absolute difference between the
sums of the primary and secondary diagonal elements in an N x N matrix. Another was to find
all substrings of a given string and count the number of pairs that are anagrams. The remaining
two  questions  were  situation-based  problems  that  could  be  solved  using  arrays.  The  test
duration was 1 hour.

The results were announced after 2 hours and the technical interviews for shortlisted students
were conducted immediately after.

TECHNICAL INTERVIEW 2

The interview was conducted by the company director and the head of the development team.
It  began  with  the  usual  ‘Tell  me  about  yourself’.  Many  questions  were  asked  about  Java,
including  multithreading,  collections,  how  ArrayLists  work  internally  and  whether  I  thought
Java was better than other programming languages, along with a justification.

Next, we moved on to DBMS, where I was asked about normalization and cursors. They also
asked about my knowledge of the company (make sure to research the company before an
interview!). Since it is a security company, I was asked some security-related questions, mainly
about certificates, HTTPS, and SSL/TLS.

Towards the end, they asked about my interview preparation strategy, my location preferences,
and my feedback on the recruitment process. Although I couldn’t answer a few questions, the
interviewers were understanding and the interview ended on a positive note.

Finally, 5 students received the offer and the offer letters were given on spot.

General Tips

•  Stay consistent in your DSA preparation.
•  Be confident during interviews. It’s alright if you don’t know some answers. The focus
is mainly on how well you can explain what you know and your willingness to learn
what you don’t know yet.

•  Research  the  company,  its  products,  and  clients.  Have  basic  knowledge  of  the

company’s domain (eg: security in this case).

•  Be strong in the basics of DSA, OOPS, DBMS, OS, Networks.
•  Be confident about everything you’ve mentioned in your resume.
•  Most importantly, don’t lose hope! Facing rejections and seeing everyone around you

get placed isn’t easy, but trust the process and keep putting in the effort.

ALL THE BEST!!

PS:  Everyone  at  the  company  was  super  friendly  and  approachable.  They  even  offered  us
refreshments and lunch. Overall, it was a good experience.

