Mridula P - Information Technology – Software
Engineer Intern & FTE in SOCIETE GENERALE

About the Company

Societe Generale is one of the leading European ﬁnancial services groups. Based on a
diversiﬁed and integrated banking model, the Group combines ﬁnancial strength and proven
expertise in innovation with a strategy of sustainable growth. Committed to the positive
transformations of the world’s societies and economies, Societe Generale and its teams seek to
build, day after day, together with its clients, a better and sustainable future through responsible
and innovative ﬁnancial solutions.

Active in the real economy for over 150 years, with a solid position in Europe and connected to
the rest of the world, Societe Generale has over 117,000 members of staff in 66 countries and
supports on a daily basis 25 million individual clients, businesses and institutional investors
around the world by offering a wide range of advisory services and tailored ﬁnancial solutions.

About the Role

The Software Engineer is a crucial role of the company to translate the needs of users and the
company into functional and eﬃcient software solutions.The main tasks of the role is analyzing
the needs of users and clients and establishing the software speciﬁcations, designing software
architectures and developing applications and software by choosing the appropriate
programming language and then coding them.They also collaborate with development teams
and other departments within the company.By leveraging advanced technologies and global
talent, this team ensures that Societe Generale can operate smoothly, innovate continuously,
and provide reliable, high-quality services to clients worldwide.

Overview of the Process:

The overall process consisted of

● An Online test in HirePro platform
● Interview Round 1 (Technical) – in CUIC
● Interview Round 2 (Technical) – in CUIC
● Interview Round 3 (HR Round) – in CUIC

Online coding test in HirePro platform:

The online coding test was conducted on the HirePro platform. It consisted of 3 sections,
namely 2 aptitude sections and a coding section.

The aptitude sections consisted of simple aptitude questions, technical mcqs majorly covering
concepts of DBMS,OS, Software Engineering, etc.The 3rd section consisted of 2 coding
questions; both were simple questions.

1. Print a corresponding number sequence of the given string inputs(eg: CAB->312,

SHE->1985)

2. There is a supermarket where if the price is a Golden no ie sum of the digits of the

number is equal to the largest digit in the number, ,there is a discount on that product.
Given input range of price ie from x to y, ﬁnd the number of products where the person
can avail a discount.

39 students were shortlisted for the interview process of Software Engineer Intern & FTE.

TIPS for Online Test:

Always remember the time within which we complete the test is also important as given the
right answers especially in case the test is easy. All the sections have stipulated time within
which you have to complete answering all the questions and you can’t go back to the section
after that time duration. So especially for aptitude sections it’s important to not waste too much
time stuck upon questions and rather move to the next one.

For the coding section I had used python and it’s important to remember built-in functions that
will save you time from unwanted manipulations/conversions. Eg: For the ﬁrst question to
convert the alphabets to integers the usage of the ord() function which takes a string argument
of a single Unicode character and returns its integer Unicode value(ASCII value) was very useful
and time saving.

Interview Round 1:

This round both technical questions and Resume-based questions. The questions were general.
The panel consisted of a single member.

The interviewer had asked to explain my projects, the tech stacks used in it, etc.

While explaining a few functionalities in my project I was also asked to write sample code
related to how I had implemented those speciﬁc functionalities and there were also follow-up
questions to test both my coding knowledge on the tech stack which was questioned.

Then I was asked a few more questions on MongoDB and related implementations in my
project. I was asked what is state and component in Reactjs and how it is more eﬃcient than
basic HTML as a front-end and follow up questions like Virtual DOM concepts,etc.

Then the interviewer asked which programming language I knew better, Java or Python and I
said Python.
He asked a few technical questions like if there is a JSON collection, how would I read the
collection using python and I was asked to write code for the same. There were also questions
related to tuples and dictionaries and sets and differences between them, slicing of lists,
implementing default parameters in Python functions.

Then I was asked questions on basics of data science involving basic implementations using
numpy libraries and a few OOPs implementation questions.

Interview Round 2:

This round also had both technical questions and project-based questions.

The interviewer started with a small random question enquiring if I remembered who my ﬁrst
interviewer was and asked to describe him( just to assess our observational skills).
Then again I was asked a lot about the project I had done and how the workﬂow of the project
was, challenges I faced technically and personally and how I handled it and also a detailed
explanation of my solution.

Then I was asked to write a few SQL queries on given scenarios from the on the lines of my
project and then a few JOIN query questions.
A few questions on DSA were asked as in what data structure I would implement for the given
scenarios and how.
Then, I was asked what made me choose the company and my knowledge of what the company
is and how it functions. I put forth my thoughts and explained how the company’s values aligned
with something I would like to follow in my workspace and he also explained the functioning of
the company in more detail. After a few follow up questions, this round also ended.

Interview Round 3:

This was purely a HR round.The HR introduced himself to me and it was more like a casual talk.

● Tell me about yourself, family, etc.
● Why did I choose engineering?
● About my projects (more on the lines of whether the project’s solution was based on a

personal problem statement)

● My thoughts on women stopping work after marriage and if I’m ok with night shifts.
● Any questions for him

He was very much satisﬁed with my answers and the round went smoothly.

Finally the announcements were made that 17 students were selected including me and I was
elated.

TIPs I followed:

Be prepared for your ‘Tell me about yourself” question and articulate it in such a way that you
pitch yourself as someone apt for the candidature both as a personality and your technical
expertise. An unprepared answer always puts on a bad impression that you aren't able to
present yourself, which is a bare minimum expected.

Be conﬁdent in giving your answers and be attentive to the response of the interviewers and
respond aptly.

I usually make sure I ask about the work culture of the company, current projects, tech stacks
used in the company, their work experience and learning arcs for the ﬁnal “Do you have any
questions for me ?” question.

