                                                                    KAVIYA C

                 FTE IN STANDARD CHARTERED GBS

About the Company:

Standard Chartered is one of the world's leading international banking groups,
offering a comprehensive range of financial products and expert advisory
services. We combine deep local expertise with robust global connectivity,
empowering clients in emerging and established markets to achieve their
financial goals. Our presence in some of the world's fastest-growing economies
makes us a trusted partner for local clients with global ambitions and
international businesses seeking access to dynamic markets.

Having first established a presence in 1858, we have a long and rich history of
supporting economic growth and driving innovation. Over the decades, we
have deepened our commitment to the markets we serve, including India,
where we are proud to be the largest international bank by network coverage.
Our integrated approach to business extends beyond financial services to
include impactful sustainability and community initiatives that improve lives
and create opportunities.

Preparation Strategy:

  I started my preparation on my 6th-semester leave (2 months).
  Started with basics of DSA concepts (Arrays, Strings, LinkedList, Stack
Queue, Recursion) and then advanced concepts(Binary Search, Trees,
Graphs, DP)

  DBMS and OOPs concepts are important, side by side I covered that too.
  Computer Networks and Operating System questions depend on the

company, so I only learned the basics.

  Practiced Aptitude and Puzzles
  System design is essential (Try practicing project system design)

Practice!

Placement Drive Experience:

1. Pymetrics Games Assessment:

    These games are comprised of 12 online mini-games that serve as AI-based
assessments. They include Balloons, Towers, Money Exchange, Keypresses like
this…

    Before attending this game, try it online.

    It is a little funny, so play it!!!

2. Values Behaviours Assessment:

     The assessment includes short videos that describe work scenarios

    Each question typically assesses two values at once.

    We have to drag the answers up and down based on your preference.

3. Online Video Assessment:

There are two questions:

1)Logs are given in no particular order. We have to write a function that returns
an array of strings denoting user_ids of suspicious users who were involved in
at least a threshold number of log entries. The IDs should be ordered ascending
by a numeric value.

2)It is based on a linked list, exactly can't remember.

The test duration is 90 minutes.

Interview Round 1(Technical):

They asked to type a code in Notepad,

A simple one finding the maximum product of the subarray

Asked the approach

Java Questions:

  Garbage collection
  Infinite loop
  Final keyword
  ClassLoader, Singleton Class, and so on
  They have asked about every part of my project technically.

They asked me "Do you have any questions?"

Never say NO, just ask something.

I asked these questions:

  Sir, Can you share your work experience?
  In which Domain do I need to Improve?
  I am new to Corporate, Can You give me some suggestions or advice to

go on with it?

This part of the Interview will boost your score, So think something to ask!!!

Interview Round 2:

  How do you behave when one of your Team member is not working

well?

  How do you assign work in your team?
  How do you handle Work pressure?
  Which part of your project you have done?
  Which part you are comfortable with like frontend or backend?
  Do you know how many branches of Standard Chartered?
  What do you know about the Company Standard Chartered?
  What are you expecting from this role?
  What will you do if your expectations do not meet?

So on like this…

Interview Round 3:

It is just checking whether do you leave the job or not,

  Do you have any idea about start-up?
  Do you have any interest in Politics?
  Any of your family members is in Politics?

And so on like this

They will check about your BackGround.

Tips and Tricks:

  Solve DSA problems consistently
  Starts with basics and goes to advanced concepts
  Side by side, start preparing OOPs, CN , OS DBMS concepts
  Learn about system design
  Before going to the interview, refer to previously asked interview

questions of the company so that you can get an idea of it.

  Go and search about the Company, know something more about it (Must

watch PPT)

Materials:

DSA – Take U Forward playlist (Strivers A-Z sheet and Strivers SDE sheet)

OOPs – Jenny's lecture & Interviewbit questions

Computer Networks , Operating System – Interviewbit questions

DBMS – Jenny's Lecture & most asked top 50 SQL queries

Be Confident!!!

All the Best!!!

