                                                                     Interview Experience

Name: Hariharan S

Roll No: 2018115033

Phone no: 9384977686

Email: hari61000@gmail.com

Company name: Tata Digital Limited:

Round 1: online Test

       3 Technical MCQ

       3 Coding questions

Round 2: Technical Interview

1.  Print Characters and their frequencies in a string (https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-

characters-frequencies-order-occurrence/).

2.  Tell me about your projects (Note: Explain your well know project by section wise project

description, problem statement, your solution, technical implementation, output. Questions will
be asked by interviewer based on our answers).

Is Multiple inheritance is supported in java.

3.  What is abstraction
4.  Difference between Abstract class and Interface in java.
5.  How do you implement Abstract class and interface in java.
6.
7.  How do you implement Multiple inheritance in java.
8.  How static keyword works and other core java related questions.
9.  Different keys in DBMS.
10. Difference between DDL, DML, TCL and DCL.
11. Basic SQL queries.

Round3: Managerial Round

1.Difference between Agile Model and Waterfall model. (Key difference is Agile model – we can start
working on project even if we have single requirement also whereas Waterfall model – we will start
working on project only we get a complete requirement).

2.Using four four’s you should get value 20 (you can do any operation +, -, *, /. Constrain: you should
use all fours and it should be used only one time). Answer is ((4/4) + 4) *4 = 20

3.Why IT?

4.What motivates you to be in IT Industry.

5.Situation based question – you are almost done with your client project, now client comes up with
small new requirement, for you there are two options 1) you can add the requirement easily but it will
lead to performance degradation 2) To add requirement and also you want to change the whole

architecture of application to increase performance and you have only two weeks of timeframe. (Select
option wisely and give your reason. My answer: I have chosen option 2. Reason I told that for any
reason we should not compromise with performance as we are Engineers and then if we are giving a
performance degraded product client will not reach out to us for next time so that I will choose 2nd
option).

6.Is documentation mandatory for project.

7.Give an example of real time problem you have solved using your problem-solving skills.

8.What is your Favorite application in your mobile? And two unavailable features to that application.

(NOTE: for interviews, be ready with OOPS concepts, DBMS concepts, your comfortable programming
language core concepts for me its java, OS concepts, Top 50 SQL queries, CN concepts (rarely asked) and
be familiar with DSA Problems)

Topics for Coding: Arrays, Strings, LinkedList, Tree, Graph, Stack and queue, Sorting and Searching
Algorithms, Dynamic Programming, Backtracking, Greedy, Heap.

                                                                       All the best :)

