Interview Experience

Name: Praghadeesh.S

Reg No: 2018115069.

Email: meetpragha@gmail.com

Company: Tata Digital.

Resume:

S.Praghadeesh_resume.pdf

Tata Digital’s recruitment process had 3 rounds.

Round 1: Coding Round

This round had 6 questions which includes 3 mcqs(technical questions)

and 3 questions(coding questions) which was conducted in Hackerrank
platform. The questions weren't the same for all.

I got two coding questions (Easy and Medium) and an SQL query to find

the 7-day Moving-average of sale of an item(Medium level). Those students
who solved all the questions were shortlisted for the next round.

Round 2: Technical Interview

The shortlisted students received mails for the interviews. The interview

was conducted in Microsoft Teams and of 40 minutes duration. There were
two interviewers and both of them were very kind and helpful throughout the
interview.

Initially, I was asked to introduce myself. Since I mentioned OOPS as one of my
areas of interests, I was asked questions regarding OOPS. The following are the
questions:

1. What is OOPS and why do we need OOPS?
2. What are the features of OOPS?
3. What is the difference between Encapsulation and Data Abstraction.
4. Then a detailed discussion about data abstraction.
5. What is abstract class,abstract methods?
6. Difference between abstract class and interface?

Then he came to my next interest which is Data Structures.

1. He asked me about Linked List and he asked me to create a linked list
(1->2->3->4->5) from scratch. After coding, he asked me to give a brief
explanation of the code.

2. He asked me to find the middle element of that linked list. I gave him
two solutions and I was asked about the time complexities of both.

Then the other interviewer asked me about DBMS(which was also one of my
areas of interests that I mentioned in my resume). Some of the questions were:

1. What is DBMS? Why do we need DBMS?
2. What is Normalization?
3. What is a Sub-Query ?
4. What is ETL (Data Warehouse)?
5. What do you know about JOINS? Explain in brief about the types of

JOINS.

6. What is INNER JOIN and explain it with an example?
7. SQL-QUERIES:

a) How to create a table with the schema of an existing table?(I was
asked to create tables with the data of the existing table and
without too. The query was asked to explain in detail and she
asked various questions in the query.)
b) What is the operator for pattern matching?
c) How do you extract a particular string from a string(Eg. “Pragha”

from “Praghadeesh”)? I was asked to write a query for it.
d) Questions on the aggregate methods and also on “Group by”

clause.

8. What do you know about Cloud computing?

The overall interview was based on my areas of interests but DBMS was asked
to every student. The technical interview was of Medium level.

Round 3: Managerial/HR Interview

Those students who cleared the interview got a phone call and
then the managerial interview was scheduled. There were 2 interviewers
who interviewed me. Interview was  conducted in Microsoft Teams.
Questions were very tricky to answer but the overall interview was good.

Some of the questions were:

1. Tell me about yourself that wasn't on my resume.
2. What technology do you like and why?
3. A detailed talk about my project and the technologies used. After

all my explanation, he just asked me if that project could be
successful when deployed in real life.

a.

I answered in a polite and in a positive way. I said that was a
big one for me because we worked hard as a team because
of the limited time. Since many technologies were used in
that project, we explored a lot and learnt a lot in this project.
Moreover, that project can be considered as a base of my
future career. (He was impressed by the way I answered).

4. Since I mentioned cryptocurrencies in my resume, I was asked
questions regarding that. He asked me the following questions,

a. There are a lot of cryptocurrencies right now and according
to you which currency is the best and why is that the best.

b. Who invented the first cryptocurrency?
c. A small talk about cryptocurrency trading and my trading

journey.

5.
If you were Sundar Pichai, what would you change in Youtube?
6. What would you do if you get an unusual error and nobody is there

around you and you don’t have Internet access?

7. You are the team lead for a project. The project is completed and
tested and ready for deployment in 2 weeks. The client suddenly
needs to change/add something. What would you do in such a
situation?

8. What do you know about Agile and waterfall models?
9. What do you know about Tata Digital?
10.Why do you want Tata Digital?

Overall experience:

The interview was overall good and medium level questions were
asked. In the technical interview, I didn’t know a few questions and I said
them in a polite way.(Even if you guys don’t know any question, tell them
politely that you aren’t aware of that and you will explore that soon). The
managerial round was completely of situational questions and

approaching everything in a positive way helped me clear the interview.
Be strong with the areas of interests that you mention and also with your
resume.

ALL THE BEST!

