VISHAL VELLAISAMY

Intern + FTE in TEJAS NETWORKS

About the Company

Tejas Networks is an Indian R&D organiza6on developing cu<ng-edge op6cal and data
networking products for India and the world. Founded in 2000, it is the only Indian
homegrown electronic hardware design company to achieve many ﬁrsts, such as successfully
demonstra6ng hitless LCAS on Ethernet hardware and running 100G interfaces over FPGAs,
now deployed globally. As the #1 op6cal aggrega6on provider in India and among the top 10
globally, Tejas has pioneered the “Make in India” ini6a6ve by not only designing but also
manufacturing its innova6ve products domes6cally. This has been made possible by an
energe6c and dedicated team of engineers for whom no problem is unsolvable.

Tejas’ R&D organiza6on delivers a diverse porVolio of Access, Edge, and Switching products
suppor6ng Broadband, Mobile Backhaul, Enterprise, U6li6es, Fixed Wireless, and SDN
applica6ons across the access, metro, and core network 6ers. With over 500 networks in 75+
countries, the company has earned global trust. In April 2022, Tata Sons, through Panatone
Finvest Limited, acquired a majority stake of 52.45%, further strengthening Tejas’ posi6on as
a global leader in telecommunica6ons. Tejas Networks con6nues to lead with innova6on,
customer-centric solu6ons, and a commitment to quality.

About the role

• Designa6on - Engineer, R&D
• Experience – Fresher.
• Loca6on – Chennai.
• Object Oriented Analysis and Design.
• Data Structures, Algorithms and their complexity/performance.
• Design/development/debugging in Java.
• Middleware like Hibernate, Ac6veMQ & Rela6onal DBs like MySQL/Oracle.
• Familiarity with Sogware Deﬁned Networking (SDN) concepts, and SDN controllers like
ODL or ONOS is desirable. Good to have: NMS/EMS/OSS/BSS domain experience.

Selec2on Process

1.Coding Round

The test was conducted on the Pro Hire plaVorm, which was smooth and user-friendly. One
notable aspect was that there was no camera proctoring during the test, allowing for a more
comfortable experience. This round was a mix of ap6tude and coding ques6ons, designed to
challenge both logical thinking and problem-solving abili6es. The coding sec6on consisted of
three problems of varying diﬃculty, covering a range of algorithmic and programming
concepts.

2.First Technical Round

This round focused on assessing my founda6onal knowledge and understanding my projects.
The interviewer asked a variety of ques6ons that allowed me to showcase my technical
exper6se. Some of the key ques6ons included:

•
•
•
•

Tell me about yourself.
Explain your projects in detail.
Ques6ons related to networking in one of my projects.
Ques6ons about OOP concepts, including the pillars of OOP and wri6ng

example programs for them.

A basic programming ques2on on solving 2-sum and 3-sum problems.
Apart from academics, what do you do? (I men6oned being a part of AUSEC

•
•
- Anna University Student Entrepreneurship Club, as listed in my resume.)

3.Second Technical Round

This round focused on problem-solving skills and included a mix of technical and
programming ques6ons. Key ques6ons included:

•
•
•
•
•

Tell me about yourself.
Rate your skills out of ten in Python, Java, and SQL.
A graph-based ques6on: Island and River problem.
A tree-based ques6on: BFS tree traversal problem.
An SQL query ques6on involving joins.

4.HR Round

This round was light and conversa6onal, aimed at understanding my aspira6ons,
communica6on skills, and cultural ﬁt within the organiza6on. Some of the key ques6ons
asked were:

•
•
•

What do you know about Tejas Networks?
Why Tejas Networks?
What will you gain from Tejas, and how will you contribute if hired?

5.Managerial Round

This round was designed to test my situa6onal judgment and management skills. The
ques6ons were focused on how I handle responsibili6es and challenges as a team player.
Some of the key ques6ons included:

What will you do in a cri2cal situa2on where the client gives you less 2me
to complete the work? How will you manage?
What will you do if your teammate is not doing their work properly?
What working environment do you prefer and why?
What is the most complex situa2on you have faced, and how did you

•

•
•
•
overcome it?

Tips and Sugges2ons from Me:

It’s not 100% about solving the problem or providing the exact right output. What

Be conﬁdent and polite throughout the interview.
If you don’t know the answer, let the interviewer know by saying, “I’m not sure, but I

Let the interviewer know if you have experience working with any networking tools.
1.
It doesn’t necessarily mean you need to have done a project on it, but having one is a plus.
In my case, I had done assignments using the NS3 simulator and Wireshark.
2.
maoers more is how you handle the situa6on, even if you can’t solve it.
3.
4.
can learn it in the future.”
5.
had similar technical skills. What helped me stand out was my contribu6ons to clubs and
event organiza6ons.
6.
7.

Lastly, you also need that 1% luck!
Adding a 7th 6p just because Thala for a reason – All the best!

During the selec6on process (ager the coding round), I no6ced that most candidates

Feel free to contact me:

•

•

•

•

Phone: +91 9790700580

Email: vishalvellaisamy1@gmail.com

Instagram: @vishal_vellaisamy

LinkedIn: linkedin.com/in/vishalvellaisamy

