Interview Experience – Tekion

Name: Subash Raja. S
Roll No: 2018115112
Mobile No: 6382975613
Email: subashraja2001@gmail.com

ROUND 1 -  Coding Round:

This round was conducted on the Hackerearth platform. Two coding questions were

asked and there were some technical and aptitude MCQ questions. The questions are as
follows

1. You are given a smartphone with an efficient charger. The initial amount of the charge in

the smartphone is S, it charges the smartphone at different rates depending upon the

amount of charge available in the phone to prevent the battery of the phone from any

damage. Assuming that the current amount of charge available in the phone is C, the

rates at which the phone is charged

R in units per minute are as follows:

Assuming the current charge level is C, the rates R of charging are (in units per minute)

0≤ C ≤ 10, R = 10

11 ≤ C ≤ 230, R = 5

231 ≤ C ≤ 559, R = 8

560 ≤ C ≤ 1009, R = 2

1010 ≤ C ≤ 5000, R = 7

5001 ≤ C ≤ 10000, R = 8

10001 ≤ C ≤ 1000000000, R = 3

SAMPLE INPUT: SAMPLE OUTPUT:

2

0 5 1

10 50 7

2. Minimum size of the board (Minimum Size Of a board | Practice Problems)

ROUND 2 – Technical Interview 1:

The interviewer introduced himself and asked me to give my introduction. I

introduced myself and began to explain to about the projects.

Then it was a code pairing round. I was asked 2 questions and I could choose my own
compiler and language and I should share my screen. The questions are:

1.  Merge two sorted arrays: First I was asked to say the approach and then I should
show the code and output with my own input. The interviewer preferred the
approach with the minimum time complexity.

2.  Find the loop node in the linked list: I did it using Floyd Warshall Algorithm and I

explained it after coding.

ROUND 3 – Technical Interview 2:

The interviewer introduced himself and asked me to give my introduction. I

introduced myself and began to explain to about the projects. This time he asked cross
questions about the project and detailed explanation. Then I was asked to screenshare my
IDE and asked coding questions. As the interviewer was in a hurry, he wanted to finish it
within half an hour, so he just gave me one coding question.

1.  Check whether the given Binary tree is BST or not.

When I was coding, he asked some technical questions.

1.  Explain ACID properties.
2.  Explain about inheritance.

Then he asked me if I have any questions. I asked how many years he worked there and
what is his specialization. Then he asked whether I was interested in frontend or backend.
As I already saw his profile on LinkedIn (He is a frontend developer) I said that I have only
worked with backend and I am interested in working with frontend and I even started
learning. He revealed that he was a frontend developer and thus end the interview with
thanking.

ROUND 3 – HR Interview:

The interviewer was very friendly and introduced himself asked me to give my
detailed introduction. After I introduced myself, he asked about the projects. He asked
many cross questions and then he asked how I would relate my project with their company.

After answering that, he said that’s all and I can ask my questions.

I asked how many years he have worked there and how the work environment there will be.

Then I asked about company product which is an automated retail cloud. He became so
enthusiastic and explained about it in a gleam manner. Then he said they will contact us
after a week regarding the internship and that ended the interview.

Thank You!

