INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE

Role: Frontend / Backend developer
6-month internship + FTE

About the Company:

Tekion Corp is a cloud technology company founded in 2016 by former Tesla CIO Jay Vijayan.
The company is headquartered in Pleasanton, California, with a major technology center in
Chennai and Bangalore.

The platform, Automotive Retail Cloud (ARC), is an end-to-end, cloud-native solution designed
for automotive dealerships. ARC integrates multiple modules such as CRM, DMS, digital retail,
service management, analytics, and AI-powered insights. Tekion also offers Automotive
Enterprise Cloud (AEC), which connects OEMs and dealerships through digital tools like
configurators, online payments, and advanced analytics.

Selection Process:

Online Assessment  ->  Offline Coding round 1  ->  Offline Coding round 2  ->  Technical Interview
->  HR interview

Online Assessment:
It had 10 MCQs, 1 Coding question and 1 SQL query.

MCQ: Focused on DSA, DBMS, OOPS

Coding:
Each candidate was given a different question and the complexity varied from person to person.
Mine was something like this : Given an array, find the number of pairs of subarrays such that
the sum of the left subarray is greater than the sum of the right subarray.
Approach: Prefix Sum, Passed all testcases.

SQL:
Check and return the number of Saturdays and Sundays from the given timestamp along with
group by and order by conditions.
It had something to do with this concept:

www.geeksforgeeks.org/postgresql/how-to-extract-day-of-week-from-date-field-in-postgresql/
I was not aware of this during the assessment so this one passed only a few testcases.

Offline Coding Round 1:

There were tasks for both frontend and backend.

Frontend: Create a dynamic form with UI implementation
I created a static form with HTML, CSS and Javascript.

Backend: 2 questions
- First one was simple: classic buy and sell stocks sum
https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-ii/description/
- Second was a bit complex: Given input in the format of Json (like visitor log), find the number
of people who are regular visitors of a browser based on some given conditions like they should
have visited more than twice a day, more than two sites visited, etc.

Offline Coding Round 2:

1. Classic recursion problem: https://leetcode.com/problems/word-break/description/
2. A variant of optimization problem: Not more than 2 same letters should be together,
I attempted brute force with priority queues
Eg: a = 7, b=2, c=1  ->  Result: aabaabaaca

Both these rounds were eliminatory. It all depended on how we presented to the evaluator in
the given 2 3 minutes.

Technical Interview:

•  Stared with frontend, asked me rate myself in Html.
•  Html4 vs HTML5, Padding vs margin, Border, All relevant tags, Datatypes we can get as

input, The form we did earlier that day, explain the javascript working.

•  Navigated to backend – Python, Java, C, C++
•  Showed a python code snippet, asked to explain and give output. Complex nested

functions.
Java inheritance, deep and shallow copy, == vs .equals()

•
•  new vs malloc, what will malloc() return, static and volatile variables

•  Threads, multiprogramming, child parent process, zombie process, orphan process,

order of printing during thread execution.

•  Asked to explain any of my projects.
•  Fastapi vs Flask vs Django cause we had used Fastapi in our project
•  Some cross questions about taxes cause that was what our project was about.

HR Interview:

Introduce yourself
I said I read books, so asked about my current read, favorite author
Internship experience

•
•
•
•  Since you've worked already, what are your expectations here?
•  Project any one, again explained the tax one
•  Apart from studies what do you do in college?
•  What is your role in these clubs? How does it affect you? How do you manage?
•  Asked if I preferred Frontend or backend

I said backend cause obviously we've been learning that for the past years throughout my
course. But with frontend, though I am not currently experienced to work with code, I have the
design immunity, like a frontend team needs both coders and designers, I said I could do the
designer job with my knowledge.

Then she said nice meeting you, wait outside.

We were informed that we got the position in under 10 mins.

