Trimble Placement Experience

-  Varun Karthik T (Batch 2022- 26)

About the Company

Trimble  is  a  global  technology  company  specializing  in  positioning,  navigation,
and mapping solutions. Founded in 1978, it was among the first to commercialize GPS
technology  for  civilian  use.  The  company  integrates  various  technologies  like  GPS,
laser,  optical,  and  inertial  systems  with  software  and  services  to  enhance  productivity
across different sectors.

Trimble’s solutions are widely used in industries such as construction, agriculture,
geospatial mapping, and transportation. A core focus of the company is connecting the
physical and digital worlds to improve efficiency and decision-making.

Previous Experience : I had previously interviewed at SAP Labs, where I was asked
a  dynamic  programming  problem.  While  I  couldn’t  provide  the  optimal  solution,  I
successfully answered all the other questions

Trimble Recruitment Process

The recruitment process for the Software Engineer role consisted of one coding

round followed by three interview rounds.

Round 1: Coding Round

The  coding  round  was  conducted  on  the  Codility  platform,  which  featured  a

built-in AI assistant. There were two coding questions.

●  Question  1:  Given  a  string  containing  ‘?’  and  an  integer  ‘k,’  you  can  replace
each  ‘?’  with any alphabet. Additionally, at most 'k' other characters in the string
could  be  replaced  to  make  it  a palindrome. The task was to return the resulting
palindrome if possible; otherwise, return 'NO'

●  Question  2:  Given  an  m  x  n  matrix,  return  the  count  of  possible  sub-matrices
where  the  sum  of  the  elements  inside the sub-matrix is equal to the sum of the
elements outside of it.

I  successfully  solved  both  questions  and  submitted  my  solutions  two  minutes
before  the  deadline.  The  built-in  AI  assistant  on  Codility  helped  me  optimize  my
approach for the second problem.

Round 2: Technical Interview (60 minutes)

35 people were shortlisted for this round. It was a 1:1, in-person interview held at
CUIC.  The  interviewer  was  very  calm  and  gave  me  time  to  think,  even  for  simple
questions.  After  a  discussion about my coding round experience, we moved directly to
the technical questions. He asked me to write out and explain most of my solutions.

The questions covered the following areas:

●  Data  Structures  &  Algorithms  (DSA):  Luckily,  He  asked  about  the  different
approaches I knew for calculating a Fibonacci number. I explained the recursive,
dynamic  programming,  and  iterative  methods.  He  then  asked  me  to  write  all
three approaches and discuss their respective time and space complexities.
●  Sorting:  The  interviewer  asked  about  my  favorite  sorting  algorithm.  I  chose
Merge  Sort,  and  he  then  provided  an  array of about 15 elements, asking me to
perform  a  step-by-step walkthrough of the sorting process, including a complete
simulation.

●  Logical  Reasoning:  I  was  given  a  tank  with an unlimited supply of water, a 5L

cup, and a 3L cup. The task was to measure exactly 4L of water.

●  Projects: He asked me to draw a high-level system design for one of my projects

and explain the data flow for a specific feature.

●  Object-Oriented Programming (OOPS): When I mentioned that OOPS was my

favorite subject, he asked the following questions:

○  What is the difference between classes and objects?
○  What is a singleton class and where is it used?
○  What are abstract methods?

●  Operating Systems (OS):

○  What is a race condition?
○  What is the difference between concurrency and parallelism?

●  Database Management Systems (DBMS):

○  What types of databases have you worked with?
○  What is the difference between PostgreSQL and MongoDB?
○  Why do we need normalization? What is denormalization?
○  Why did you choose a particular database for your project?
○  What is the purpose of Object-Relational Mapping (ORM)?

I was able to answer most of the questions correctly. The questions in this round
were  not  overly  difficult  and  covered  the  fundamentals  of  all  core  computer  science
areas. The round ended with me asking the interviewer some questions.

Round 3: System Design and Managerial Round (40-45 minutes)

Around 20 candidates were shortlisted for this round. This round was enjoyable,
and  the  interviewer  was  very  friendly;  it  felt  more  like  a  casual  chat  than  a  formal
assessment. He recognized me from the pre-placement talk because I had asked him a
few questions then.

●  Projects  &  Hobbies:  We  started  with  an  introduction  where  we  discussed  my
hobby, photography. He then asked me to explain the same project discussed in
the  previous  round  and  inquired  about  the  different  approaches  my  team  and I
considered for a particular feature.

●  System  Design:  I  was  asked  to  create  a  system  design  for  a  mall  parking

system.

●  Managerial & Scenario-Based Questions:

○  "If  your  full-time  offer  depended  on  your  internship  performance,  how

would you approach your work during the internship?"

○  "How do you go about learning a new skill?"
○  "Imagine you are a Trimble employee with 10 years of experience. A new
problem is presented to all employees, and a fresher's idea is better than
yours. What would you do?"

○  A follow-up question was: "How do you determine if an idea is good?"

Round 4: HR - Personal Experience Round (30 minutes)

11-13  people  were  shortlisted  for  this  final  round.  The  discussion was centered

around my personal experiences and background.

●  She  asked  about  my  hackathon  experiences,  my  weakness,  and  my  family

background

●  She asked why I chose to study at CEG
●  She asked a hypothetical question: "If you received another offer, which company

would you choose and why?"

●  The  HR  representative  noticed  that  my  friend  Ajay,  who  is  also  my  hackathon
teammate,  and  I  had  worked  on  common  projects  and  asked  us  about  our
shared experiences. (We both ultimately received an offer) .

●  We also discussed my preferred domains of work.

In  the  end,  six  of  us  received  an  offer,  and  I  am  happy  to  be  one  of  them.  The
interview  process  primarily  focused  on  my  understanding  of  core  concepts,  system
design capabilities, and the projects I had worked on.

My Preparation Strategy:

●  DSA: I followed Striver A2Z sheet and Neetcode 150 🙏
●  Core Concepts:  I relied on GeeksforGeeks and my academic coursework.
●  SQL: I solved some questions on the "SQL 50" list on LeetCode
●  Projects:  My  deployed  projects  and  hackathon  experience  were  incredibly

helpful during the interviews.

Tips:

●  Don’t  over-exaggerate  your  resume.  Even  if  it’s  minimal,  make  sure  you  truly

understand everything you put on it.

●  Don’t  get  demotivated  if  you don’t get placed early; stay confident and focus on

the process.

●  Don’t  get  distracted  by  the  number  of  problems  solved.  Some  people  find
patterns  by  solving  just  a few problems, while others need to solve many more.
Understand who you are and put in effort accordingly.

●  You cannot prepare for everything in just one month before placements; how you

spend your entire time in college will help you in various ways.

●  Meaningful  experiences  from  projects,  hackathons,  and clubs cannot be gained
at the last minute. My participation in hackathons, in particular, taught me a lot.

By,
Varun Karthik T
2022115060
Email : varunkarthikceg@gmail.com
LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/in/varun-karthik-t
Phone : 7708656066

