                                                        Interview Experience

Name:        YOHESHWAR S

Reg. No:     2018115137

Company:  Trimble

1)  ONLINE TEST:  It contained 3 rounds.

Round 1: Technical Aptitude (45 mins)

This round had 11 questions which were not mcqs and they were kind of fill ups where we were
supposed to type the solution or logic in the text area given or we were allowed to write the
solution, scan and upload it. It contained questions from Operating Systems, OOPS, DMBS, Data
Structures, Computer Networks. This round was conducted in Hackerearth.

Round 2: Quantitative Aptitude (30 mins)

This round had 5 questions. Here also we were supposed to give the complete solution with steps or
we could write, scan and upload it. This round was conducted in Hackerearth.

Round 3: Programming (1 hour 30 mins)

This round had 3 questions. The questions were not that difficult, but maintaining the time
complexity was the difficult task. I solved one question with brute force which passed me half of the
test cases. But by solving the remaining questions with brute force did not pass me any of the test
cases. So I opted DP even though it did not pass me all the test cases. So don’t opt for brute force
method even it passes half of the test cases. Go for DP. This round was conducted in Hackerearth.

After these three rounds, 13 students were shortlisted for the interviews.

2)  INTERVIEWS:

Round 4: Technical Interview (2 hours):

There were two interviewers. First I was asked to introduce myself. Then they shared a document
which had a question on multilevel queue scheduling, which I solved in Round 1 (technical
aptitude).

They asked me how did I solve that question. I explained the logic and the order in which the
processes would be scheduled. Then I was asked to solve three questions.

  Construct a linked list from scratch and find the sum of two numbers represented in linked

list.

  Construct a binary tree from scratch and find the sum of numbers in each vertical order of a

binary tree.

  Graph: Given a 2d matrix, a source and a destination. Find the shortest path between source

and destination. I solved this question using breadth first search (bfs).

I was asked with the time complexity, space complexity and better approach for each and every
question.

Round 5: Technical Interview (1 hour 30 mins):

In this round there was only one interviewer. First I was asked to introduce myself. And then he
started with one of the projects which is a 3d game done using unity and asked me to explain it. I
was asked many scenario based questions within the project itself, like “What difficulties would I
face when that game was a multiplayer game and if it was controlled by a same server?” and etc .
Then he asked me about Raycasting in detail. And he gave me a scenario and asked me to arrive
with the data structure which would suite that scenario and he asked me to design a security
system. Then he asked me some scenario based questions and some HR questions about my family.

Round 6: HR Interview (15 mins):

Here there was only one interviewer. He asked me to introduce myself. And then he asked about my
family, my financial status, my interest on higher studies and then he started speaking about the job
description, salary package and benefits.

Finally four students were given FTE.

NOTE:

  Be casual and friendly to the interviewers. Don’t get tensed at any point of time. Be

thorough with all the data structures and all your projects.

