Interview Experience

Name: Palaniappan N

Reg No: 2018115066

Company: Trimble

Trimble’s hiring process consists of 6 rounds.

Round1: Theoretical Computer Science

                 This round contains 11 questions related to computer science, here we were asked to
solve those questions and type those answer with the procedure in the given text field and also
we can upload the photos of the rough sheet. This round was conducted in Hackerearth. Test
Duration: 45 mins

Round2: Math & Aptitude

                 This round contains 5 questions in basic math and aptitude, here we were asked to
solve those questions and type those answer with the procedure in the given text field and also
we can upload the photos of the rough sheet. This round was also conducted in Hackerearth.
Test Duration: 30 mins

Round3: Programming

                 This round contains 3 questions, the coding questions were difficult and I tried to
solve just one question (Count of Numbers in a range where digit d occurs exactly k times). At
first I tried brute force to solve this question but the time limit exceeded then I tried to solve
this question using DP and then I finally solved this question. This round was conducted in
Hackerearth. Test Duration: 1 hour 30 mins.

After these three rounds 11 students were shortlisted for the interview.

Round4: Technical Interview 1

                 In this round there were 2 interviewers, they first introduced them and asked me to
introduce myself. At first they asked me how I solved those questions in programming round

and I just said them what I did, like a simple procedure and then they shared me a google docs
which consists of three questions. I was asked to solve those questions and just write a pseudo
code for those 3 questions. I solved all the 3 questions but I was just able to write the pseudo
code for just 1 question due to time constraints. And also we discussed about the time and
space complexity for these questions.

Questions:

•  Addition of two numbers represented by linked list
•  Vertical sum in BST
•  Rat and Maze problem (Back tracking)

      They also asked about the best approach for these questions.

Round5: Technical Interview 2

                   In this round there were 2 interviewers but just one of them questioned me. At first I
introduced myself, then he told me to design a application to navigate in malls and we
discussed a lot about that and then he asked me to explain about my internship experience. At
last he asked some technical questions related to OOPS, DBMS and OS and then he asked that I
have any questions for him, I just asked about his experience in Trimble and then he explained
me about that.

Round6: HR Interview

                  In this round there was only one interviewer, he asked me to introduce myself and
then he asked about my financial status, my family, my goals and my strength and weakness
and then he told me about the salary package.

Four students got selected and lucky I was one of them

