SHIVABALAN M - Verizon Data Services
Interview Experience

About Verizon:

Verizon is a global telecommunications and technology company

that delivers wireless connectivity, broadband, and enterprise networking
solutions worldwide. Verizon Data Services plays a critical role by
handling software development, data analytics, network operations,
cybersecurity, and automation, ensuring Verizon’s global networks and
digital platforms run efficiently, securely, and at scale.

About the Role – Engineer 1:

This role is an software development position at Verizon India
under the Global Network & Technology team. The work mainly involves
designing and developing software applications, preparing system and
user documentation, and helping with the day-to-day support and
maintenance of existing systems and also assisting in integrating third-
party applications and supporting ongoing technical and managerial
initiatives.

Selection Process:

The process had 5 stages of selection:

1) Online Coding round
2) Group Discussion
3) AI Prompting round (non-eliminatory)
4) Technical Interview
5) HR Interview

Round 1: Online Assessment:

The online assessment had 2 sections:

1. Coding
2. MCQ

The MCQ section had 30 MCQs mostly based on Gen AI and related stuffs.
They were mostly easy and answerable if we think for a while.

Then the coding section had 2 questions out of which one was easy and
one was medium. I don’t exactly remember the question. But yeah, If
you’re a 7/10 guy in DSA you’ll be able to solve both of them without any
struggles.

80 candidates including me were shortlisted for the further interview
process.

Round 2: Interview process (At CUIC):

The entire interview process happened in CUIC only and there were

no virtual rounds.

The first and important round of the interview process was the

Group Discussion round. Candidates were divided into group of 9 or 8
members each. My group was given the topic “Online mode or the
traditional way of doing things (whether it is shopping, education, or work
or anything)”. I made sure to speak twice throughout the discussion. I
also listened to others points which actually helped me shape my points
and convey them in a better way.
The concept is simple: Speak with clarity. Listen to others perspective and
the important thing is Do not speak too much.
Almost half of the candidates were eliminated in this round.

The Second round was the AI Prompting round. This round was a non-
eliminatory one. Basically, they gave us few problem statements and we
have to build solutions for them. But we don’t have to actually build it. We
just have to give prompt for an AI tool to build the solution. They
basically check how good we were at giving prompts to AI tools. Though
this round is non eliminatory they note everything and asked about our
way of giving prompts during the technical interview round!

The next round was the technical interview round. For me this round was
entirely based on my resume. In some other panel, there were questions
on Search and Sort techniques, DSA and basic ML stuffs. So yeah , it
differs from panel to panel.

The interviewer was actually very patient and took the entire interview in
a smoother way. As soon as the interview started, I was asked to
introduce myself. Then he dived into my resume. He basically checked
how well I knew things that I mentioned in my resume.
I did an internship during my 4th semester holidays which I explained
thoroughly and he raised questions on it as well. I made sure I answered
them with clarity and confidence. Then he questioned about my projects.
I explained them clearly as well. Then he asked me questions on my way
of giving prompts based on the prompts that I gave during the AI
prompting round. Then at the end I asked some questions about the
operations at Verizon to the interviewer and he explained them to me.

32 candidates including me were shortlisted for the HR round.

The last round was the HR Round. This round was pretty simple. The
interviewer asked me to introduce myself initially. I introduced myself
elaborately and he was a bit impressed with that. Then there were
questions about my family, my goals in next 5 years and simple default
HR round questions. Then I asked him few questions on the Work culture
at Verizon and he answered them.

Once every candidates were done with their HR round, They sent us our
Selection Mail immediately!
All the 32 candidates were selected!

My Preparation Strategy:

I started DSA late and I realised it was a mistake later . I started
preparing during my 6th semester holidays only. I recommend you to
start practicing DSA as early as possible. 2 problems per day will do
the job! I used Striver’s Sheer and Interview 150 sheet for my DSA
preparation. And for other core concepts(DBMS, OOPS, CN etc,.) I
referred Geeks for Geeks.

Previous Interviews:

Before Verizon I attended interviews for Trimble Inc and Roche

Services.Actually the learnings from those 2 interviews helped me a lot
during my interview for Verizon.

For Trimble, there were 2 coding questions in the online assessment
round and in the first round of the physical interview process I failed to
provide an optimal solution for the DSA question and I feel that was the
reason I was not selected for the further rounds. You can crack Trimble if
you are good at DSA, Core concepts and importantly System Design.

Then for Roche Services the online assessment had questions from
Aptitude, Communication and SQL.
During the interview process we had 4 rounds, the first round was the
case study round where
I was given with 5 business cases and asked
to solve questions from them. The second round was the GD round. Then
we had the technical interview which completely focused on Data Analysis
and SQL. The same with the second technical round as well.

Key Suggestions and Tips from My Experience:

-> Start DSA as early as possible.
-> Focus on your communication skills.
-> Do not lose hope.
-> Face the interviews with clarity and confidence.
-> Mention only things you know about in your resume.
-> Have a deeper understanding of your projects.

Contact Information: Feel free to contact me in
case of any doubts :)

Name: SHIVABALAN M

Mobile No: +91 97892 24553

EmailId: shivabalan1810@gmail.com

LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/shivabalan-mani/

ALL THE BEST GUYS !!!

