Placement Experience – Verizon

-  Shreya Elizabeth Franklin

About the Company

Verizon Communications is a telecommunications company and one of the world’s leading
providers of technology, communications, and network solutions, consistently ranked
among the Fortune 500 companies. Founded in 2000, Verizon serves over 100 million
wireless customers and delivers broadband, fiber-optic, and 5G connectivity to businesses
and consumers across the United States and beyond. Verizon has the largest 4G LTE
network in the U.S. It is headquartered in New York and in India, it has offices in Chennai,
Bangalore and Hyderabad.

About the Role

The role that they were hiring for was Engineer 1 (Software Development). When asked
more about the role, the HR said that you will be working with various technologies and you
should be open to work in various domains.

Placement Process

ROUND 1: Online Assessment

It consisted of 3 parts. Firstly, we were asked to type a composition of about 190 – 250
words. The topic that I got was ‘ Do children teach us to be better people?’. It was a general
verbal testing round and not technical. Next, there was a coding round where they asked 2
questions which were of easy-medium level. The last part of the assessment was a
verbal/communication testing round where they asked vocabulary and grammar questions.

ROUND 2: GROUP DISCUSSION

This round assesses your communication skills and the way you’re putting forward your
opinions. Don’t be too forceful and make sure to add in your points at the right time. Even if
you speak for a lesser time, it’s okay but what you speak and the effect it makes matters. Be
sure to give others also a chance to speak and never cut a person in between. My panel had
13 members and the moderator was a senior HR of the company with over 7 years of

experience. He told us to start off the discussion with a general topic of our choice. I spoke
twice during the whole discussion but the points I put forth were of impact. 8 people were
selected to the next round.

ROUND 3: TECHNICAL INTERVIEW

The technical interview went well. The interviewer was friendly and made me feel at ease.
He browsed through my resume and asked about my former internship experiences,
hobbies and the current project that I’m working on.

I was given a scenario of the working of Swiggy and asked to modify the database if items
from multiple restaurants could be ordered simultaneously. I drew the change in the
database for the given modifications.

Finally, he asked whether I had any questions. I asked him his experience in the company
and whether we could explore different domains on a rotation basis. He answered my
questions clearly.

ROUND 4: HR INTERVIEW

In this round, I was asked to tell something about myself that is not mentioned in my
resume and I was asked basic questions about my location preference and my knowledge
about the company.

I asked questions in this round too regarding the work culture and the growth in the
company. Ask questions, don’t hesitate as this will show your eagerness to work in the
company.

15 people were selected by the company and they sent us a confirmation email on the
same day.

Tips and Tricks

-  Be confident and communicate well
-  Focus on verbal knowledge as well
-  Know your resume well and be yourself
-  Technical topics: Data structures and DBMS

All the best!

