Interview Experience

Name :  S.M.Vishnupriya
Email : muanvide3@gmail.com
Company : Viasat Inc.
Month and Year : February 2021 (Internship)

Reg No : 2018115133

Viasat recruitment process consists of three rounds. Eligible shortlisted students were

allowed to attend the round 1. Based on the performance on each round, students can progress to
next levels.
Round 1 : Assessment round :

The test contains quantitative aptitude, verbal and logical reasoning and technical aptitudes.

MCQ format questions. The test was conducted on First Naukri platform.

Round 2 : Technical Interview - 1 :

The shortlisted students were scheduled one-on-one interview for 30 minutes. The meeting

was conducted on zoom. You might have to share your screen and code lively. This round started
with self-introduction. Then I was asked to explain my projects. They inquired some queries when I
was explaining. Like why I used a particular technology for a particular module in my project.
I was asked to share my screen and write code for an array problem. They expect optimised solution.
Then I was asked to write some DBMS queries followed by questions on your preferred
programming language. Brief explanation on the OOPS concept. Lastly they gave some 2-3 riddles.
They expected a clear explanation on your approach to solve the puzzle.

Round 3 : Technical Interview – 2 :

Based on the performance on round 2, shortlisted students received mail for 2nd technical
interview. This was also conducted on zoom meetings. This round went on for 1.15 hours. Started
with introduction from both ends. Briefly explained my projects. Then I was asked to share my
screen and write code to print prime numbers between the given range [optimised solution with less
time complexity].
Then I was asked the following questions :
•  How do you login into your router?
•
•  About Router internals
•  Switch vs Hub
•  How messages are sent and received between two users on the internet?
•  Questions on the various network protocols
•  Have you ever worked on network? [For this, I thoroughly explained my Computer Networks
Course project which is an RFC implementation. Some questions on the working of the RFC]

If your wi-fi stops working what will you do?

•  Why Viasat and my future plans? And followed by some behavioural questions.
•

Lastly, ended with solving some puzzle questions.

NOTE : The networks related questions were asked because I said Computer Networks is my
favourite course among the given choices[Cloud Computing, Computer Networks, Compiler
Engineering, etc]. Still though other students were also asked some network questions as Viasat is a
network based Company.
The selected students from this round were offered internship opportunity. I did my internship
virtually for 2 months as Software Engineer. Later, I was offered PPO for the role of Software
Engineer – 1.

All the Best !!!

