About the company

VISA is a payment facilitator. It facilitates electronic funds transfers throughout the
world, most commonly through Visa-branded credit cards, debit cards and prepaid
cards. Contrary to public opinion, they aren’t a bank or a credit card company.

Role Details

Summer Internship – Software Engineering Intern

Preparation Strategy

•  Work through the problems of LeetCode and GFG.
•  Pick a youtuber of your choice and then refer their SDE sheet. Stick to one
sheet and aim to cover all the easy and moderate problems in their list.
•  Refer takeuforward on YT for various algorithms. The channel is entirely in

English.

•  Try mycodeschool for pointers. Your understanding of pointers should be rock
solid as it forms the base of almost all the other data structures. So take your
time with this.

•  Refer GFG for algorithms
•  Get the basics right: arrays, pointers, trees, linked lists, stack, queue, heap,

•

binary search, tree traversals, etc
In my opinion, you don’t need to know complex topics like DP, graphs,
segment tree for internship interviews. However, it helps if you know it as they
will be asked during placements.

•  Try Codechef, Codeforces and Codewars if you are interested in CP. This will
help you down the line. Regularly give contests on these platforms. Don’t
worry about your ratings. Pick up problem-solving skills

•  Try to get 6-stars for problem solving on hackerrank. This badge covers

almost all the important topics you’d need.

•  Learn CPP. Don’t use Python for coding as it quite slow. I wouldn’t

recommend Java either because it is verbose. CPP is the ideal language for
competitive programming.

•  For CPP, refer The Complete C++ Reference by Herbert Schildt. It covers all

the topics.

•  Almost all the big companies allow you to use STL. Make sure you know how
each data structure works in STL. You can refer Schildt’s book or articles on
GFG for this. Don’t worry if the syntax seems scary at first. With enough
practice, you should get the hang of things.

•  Have two or three projects on your preferred domain. Make sure you

•

understand each line of code.
If you are into data science or other related domains, check out Kaggle. Give
community-contests regularly.

•  Before you put some fancy buzzword like AI, ML, blockchain, cloud computing
etc on your resume, make sure you have enough knowledge about it. You can
expect to be asked tons of questions on these topics if you put them on your
resume. My advice would be to put them in the interests section rather than
the skills section.

•  Work on your typing speed and accuracy. This will give you an edge over

others during contests and coding rounds.

•  For aptitude, refer Indiabix and puzzles on GFG. Devote enough time to this
as a majority of fintech companies have an aptitude section in the first round.

•  Focus on the core subjects like Operating Systems, Computer Networks,

DBMS, and Design & Analysis of Algorithms. For these topics, it is more than
enough if you pay attention in class. For last minute preparation, refer the
Frequently Asked Questions(FAQs) on takeuforward. You can also watch
Abdul Bari’s YT channel. He explains concepts in a simple, easy-to-
understand way.

•  Prepare for HR questions. This is the make-or-break part of interviews. Have

a solid introduction before your interview. This should cover your interests and
tell the interviewer who you are as a person rather than being an audio
version of your resume. Look up standard HR interview questions and
prepare for them ahead of time.

•  Refer company-wise questions on a website of your choice. Ideally, this

should be done a few days before the actual test and interview

•  Keep up with the C.O.D.E initiative of ACM-CEG and regularly give practice

contests

•  Familiarise yourself with various platforms such as hackerrank, hackerearth
etc. The online tests will happen in these platforms, and it really helps if you
know the layout of the platform.

•  You will be given a 50-day break after the fourth semester. Use this break to

prepare for the internship season that’s coming up. Aim to solve 3 problems a
day and slowly increase the number of problems you are solving towards the
end of the break.

•  Finally, stay hopeful. The intern season can be rough. You will get rejected for

no reason. It may seem like your hard work isn’t paying off. Please stay
optimistic. Give the online tests and interviews to the best of your abilities and
you will definitely crack them.

Preliminary round

We were asked to give the online tests in college. The test was conducted on
hackerrank platform. We were all given a different set of coding questions. The
questions were moderate. We didn’t have any OS, CN, DBMS questions in the
online test.

The questions asked were:

•  Brute-force based question. The catch here was to optimise it sufficiently. The
question was moderate-hard. It was similar to the concept of limiting reagent
in chemistry. I was able to pass 14/16 test cases.

•  An easy-moderate question on arrays. I got this fully right.

No aptitude-based questions were asked.

Final Round

The final round happened on Microsoft Teams. The interview began with a quick
introduction from the interviewer, and I was asked to introduce myself. The interview
was primarily focused on my projects and interests. There was a tree-based question
on hackerrank code-pair. The interviewer was satisfied with my approach, so I wasn’t
asked to code. We continued to talk about my projects and interests. I was quizzed
on my achievements mentioned in my resume. I was also asked to explain the
working of a few of my projects. Plenty of HR questions were asked. The interview
went on for about 40 minutes.

Aswin Ramanathan

Batch of 2024

You can reach out to me on: Aswin's LinkedIn Profile

