Placement Experience for Visa

Shankar Subramanian (2018115102)

Online Test:

Two questions, first one was a dynamic programming question where instead of finding the
minimum or maximum you find the GCD. I think i did this using python 3.9 as it has an inbuilt
GCD function, else i coded it manually.

Second question was a string question where you had to find the HCF of 2 strings (ababab,
abab) -> (ab) as that’s the smallest subset that when multiplied can form both. I did this using
java as it has a repeat function on strings.

Interview round 1:
Was asked questions about how I would find a pair and then a trio of numbers in a given list of
numbers that total 0, you use hashmaps here cuz the time complexity on reading that is O(1)
instead of arrays that would be an O(n). I think the exact code wasn’t needed, it had to sound
right, so i guess it was a logic test, the interviewer was helpful. This was done on hackerrank
codepair i think it was where your screen gets recorded and locked and you and the interviewer
share the same file in real time, its like google docs but code i guess

Interview round 2:
Got asked about my resume for a little bit and then asked what languages I am familiar with,
told them javascript, python, and java. Was asked basic questions about javascript like how I
would make cookies, and what is freezing an object. Syntax wasn't asked as IDEs nowadays
have that stuff. Was then asked to do some string manipulation, using python as slicing was one
of the options. This also happened on that codepair thing.

Interview round 3:
40 minutes of resume project analysis, was asked about the courses i did on coursera, why i did
different things, and what my interests had been, and what they are now. Then discussed a
random project on the resume for 15 minutes before getting into the nitty gritty of it and then
discussing about the ways in which it could be improved or how i would handle different
scenarios, you really have to know what you’re doing here as the replies must be convincing
and the interviewer builds upon your previous response. As it builds upon your previous
response you are in control of the direction of the interview, so think ahead and try to not let it go
to a domain or part where you are not comfortable with.

Don’t do these:

1. don’t shell into your comfort zone and also don’t YOLO, there’s a fine line live life there
2. don’t try to scam the interviewers, spoiler alert they know stuff
3. know different languages i guess (this isn't hard it's just adding different shortcuts to your

arsenal as each language has its own special thing)

4. don’t tunnelvision yourself into max priority of getting the job, read the company, think
ahead of what the interviewer would ask, plan for most important scenarios, basically
game the system and you will be rewarded
If you don't know something, tell them what you’re thinking and as they aren’t sitting on
the other side to just RA you, they will help direct you towards the right answer (this
seems to be a recurring theme in most interviews).

5.

A paragraph of tips:
I wouldn’t recommend just reading G4G the prev night on a new topic (unless that’s your thing
and you’re real good at understanding theory), at least in my case that never works, i think
having coded it at some point in your life makes it a more memorable experience of pain or joy
and as you have a certain emotion attached to it it would last longer in your mind (this is some
psychology stuff i guess). Middle ground case of previous night's G4G and coding it as you
read, i don't know about this as I have not tried it, most of mine was from my practical
experience so I guess you could call it a YOLO based on past experiences.

It’s an interview not an interrogation room, it’ll be a cool experience if you want it to be, it could
be fun if you want it to be, basically it becomes what you want it to be, mine were straight up fun
(maybe i'm weird), we were casually talking about the answers and discussing topics and
scenarios. I guess the main take away is that they just want to check if you can think or design
something, for this you do need to know some computer theory stuff like trees, and maps, but
they’d help you with it if it’s more obscure (not splay tree kinda stuff levels, you’ll probably never
see things like these and if you do please let me know at cottonian99@gmail.com).

Like when you’re learning something and it feels important and you can think of a place it could
work (i'm not telling you to sit in a white room like socrates and force yourself to think) like know
it enough so that if you’re thinking about something else this should
pop-up-in-your-head-levels-of-importance, then know that thing and remember it. Some obscure
idea like idk getting the attendance of all students in the class could be made faster by asking all
students to turn their hotspots on or connect to the particular wifi and logging the IP/MAC->
student id (don't come at me saying this is a bad idea cuz of IP/MAC spoofing, it was just a
thought)

ps: take this as seriously as you would a grain of salt, as this is only my experience, and most of
it was based around my resume, as Visa i think does not exactly have a straight up viva like
Q&A session interview (i guess my first one was like that) i’d suggest knowing the stuff in your
resume well.

