VISA Interview Experience

-  Arunachalam M

About the company

Visa Inc. is an American multinational financial services corporation headquartered in San
Francisco, California. It facilitates electronic funds transfers throughout the world, most
commonly through Visa-branded credit cards, debit cards and prepaid cards.

Role details

The role offered by Visa was for a Software Engineer Intern.

Candidate Profile

I had made 2 projects each covering a different set of skills. The first one was a movie
booking project using XAMPP stack. The other project was finding the shortest path between
any 2 buildings in CEG campus which can implemented to any campus using Dijkstra.

My first project covered my DBMS and web development knowledge and my second one
covered my DSA skills. Try having a project like a web/app on a different topic unlike the
standard hotel reservation system etc as interviewers prefer different types of project
irrespective of the stack used. Also try to have at least 2 projects in your resume.

Mention the skills that you are confident in your resume and never lie in your resume as it
creates a bad impression and more chances of rejection are created.

Preparation Strategy

Preparing for interviews require consistency and dedication. With these 2 skills, you can
easily crack any coding interview.

First strengthen your language skills in C++,java or python. I would recommend C++ as its
fast, easy to learn and code. Try the basic HackerRank C++ sums to understand the nuances
of the language. Learning STL is a must for C++. For python or java their respective
Collections library.

Next step is to take one topic at a time and solve many sums on them. Take a topic for ex
arrays, practice lots of sums based on arrays from Geeksforgeeks and leetcode until you are
confident with arrays. Then move on to the next topic, strings linked list etc

Keep solving in gfg and leetcode regularly. Attend the biweekly and weekly contests of
leetcode and any programming contest hosted by gfg as they help you prepare on how to
solve sums in a limited time frame.

Try solving sums from codeforces upto 1200 rating level as those sums are asked in the
online assessment round of many companies. These sums also help in improving your
problem solving skills a lot.

Another important thing I would like to mention is to document and store your solutions for
important sums. Don’t store for necessarily all the sums, store only the important sums that
uses a particular concept like two pointer, sliding window etc. I would recommend opening a
github repository as it is online and can be accessed anywhere from your phone or from any
device. Write your approach, intuition, logic, code and the time and space Complexity. This
helped me a lot to prepare for interviews

Instead of solving random sums, experienced youtubers have created sheets which can be
followed to move towards the right direction.

https://takeuforward.org/strivers-a2z-dsa-course/strivers-a2z-dsa-course-sheet-2/

The above link contains an amazing curated sheet of problems which covers all the topics.
This sheet has been curated by Striver who is currently working at Google

Other resources I had used were :

DP series :
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLgUwDviBIf0qUlt5H_kiKYaNSqJ81PMMY

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL_z_8CaSLPWekqhdCPmFohncHwz8TY2Go

Tree series :

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLgUwDviBIf0q8Hkd7bK2Bpryj2xVJk8Vk

Graph series :

https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLgUwDviBIf0rGEWe64KWas0Nryn7SCRWw

Basically follow Striver’s channel as it has everything covered!!

Preliminary Round

The first round was an online assessment round which was conducted on HackerRank in
offline mode proctored by dept staff. Two questions were asked and the duration was 1 hour

The questions asked were :

1.  Find the maximum difference of the max and min element of every component in the

graph.

2.  You are given two teams of sizes a and b. The total number of participants are n. Find
the minimum number of teams that can be formed using all the n participants into
either teams of sizes a or of size b

Solution :

1.  This is a standard graph problem which can be solved by DFS or BFS
2.  This is an adaptation of the Minimum number of Coins sum (Dynamic Programming)

I was able to solve both the sums within 1 hour and later I was shortlisted for the next round

Technical Round(s)

The 2nd round was a technical DSA round which was conducted in Microsoft teams at CUIC.

My interviewer joined on time and started a friendly conversation about my educational and
family background. Then he started to slowly moved towards my projects in my resume.

He asked why I did this project and what is the unique feature of your project that
distinguishes yours from the other ones out there. Then he asked few more technical
questions regarding the projects.

Next he asked me to join the HackerRank code-pair link and gave me a DSA question

Given a string and a number as input, rotate each and every character of the string

according to the number mentioned. Ex : string : abc, number : 1, then output is bcd

The number can also be negative and error messages should also be displayed for edge cases
like when there is an empty string, or an alphabet instead of a character etc.

I was able to solve the sum and the subsequent edge cases and follow up questions that were
asked.

My interview round lasted for 1 hour 10 minutes. After a few hours, the results were out and I
was selected.

