About the company:

Vivriti Capital

Vivriti Capital is an Indian fintech NBFC that focuses on debt finance for mid-market enterprises. It is
one of the leading startups based out of Chennai. They are mainly backed by TVS Credit, a company
that has been in this field for years. Vivriti has offices in Chennai, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Gurgaon and
Singapore although the tech team is based out of Chennai office only. They have other sister
companies like Vivriti Asset Management and Vivriti Next which offers fintech solutions. Tech hires
are considered as employees of Vivriti Capital only.

Role:
R&D Engineer – The role offers lot of scope for exploring new domains and tech stack. You’ll get to
experiment a lot and learn different stack. It involves more of ML-based solutions and latest
developments in the field and offers full ownership of the product.

Preparation Strategy:
Usual medium level DSA and other fundamentals. Be thorough with projects and skills in resume.

Placement Drive Experience:
First round – Online HackerRank test at CUIC
10 MCQs on fundamentals
3 DSA questions (1 easy, 2 medium. Arrays, strings and basic 1-D DP)

Second round – Technical + HR interview
Basic DSA, sorting techniques, time & space complexity, etc. Be thorough with your resume. Major
part of the interview will be based on what you put in resume, especially projects. Know everything
about your projects.

Tips and tricks:
Tips as in for first round, the usual DSA in Leetcode/GFG will do. As for the interview, it’ll be based on
your skill-set. The major advantage here is that they do not require you to be knowledgeable in a
specific tech stack but want you to be fundamentally strong in what you mention. The interviewer
will be determined based on what tech stack and projects you have mentioned in your resume. For
example, the interview will be different for R&D engineer (requires Python and basic understanding
of ML and related projects) and software engineer (requires full stack development skills).

The work culture is good, not much hierarchy is followed, you can just knock on the CEO or CTO
whenever you want (still a large startup       ). If you are planning to go for higher studies and want to
gain industry experience while preparing for something else then this will be a good place. Don’t
expect it to be like other multinational banks since this is an Indian company and works differently.

