INTERVIEW   EXPERIENCE

NAME   :    VENKAT   KARTHICK   P
REG   NO   :    2018115125
COMPANY   :    WALMART
MONTH   &   YEAR   :    SEP   2021

ROUND   1   :   (ONLINE   TEST)
It   is   conducted   on   the   hackerearth   platform.   It   consists   of   10   technical   mcqs   and   2
coding   questions(20   mark   and   50   mark).
The   coding   questions   are:

1. Modulus   of   2   hexadecimal   numbers.   (20   marks)
Link:    Modulus   of   two   Hexadecimal   Numbers

2. Longest   subsequence   of   ones   formed   by   changing   at   most   k   zeros(50   marks)

Link:    Longest   subsegment   of   '1's   formed   by   changing   at   most   k   '0's
I   solved   this   question   using   the   sliding   window   approach.

I   solved   only   the   50   mark   question.

ROUND   2   :   (TECHNICAL   INTERVIEW   1)
It   is   conducted   in   zoom.   It   is   a   45-50   minute   interview.   The   interviewer   wants   me   to
introduce   myself.   And   then   I   explained   my   project   to   him.
He   asked   the   basics   of   OOPS.   I   explained   the   concepts   like   abstraction,   encapsulation,
polymorphism   and   inheritance   with   an   example.
Then   he   asked   me   to   share   the   screen   and   to   open   the   editor   of   my   own   choice.   I   was
given   2   basic   coding   questions.

1. Find   whether   the   given   number   is   prime   or   not.   After   I   typed   the   code,   he   asked
why   I   iterated   from   2   to   n/2.   After   I   convinced   him,   he   asked   if   there   are   any
optimizations   possible   and   why?   I   said   we   can   iterate   from   2   to   sqrt(n).

2. Find   whether   a   given   string   is   palindrome.

As   I   quickly   solved   the   questions,   he   asked   me   2   aptitude   questions.

1. Pipes   A   and   B   can   fill   a   tank   in   5   and   6   hours   respectively.   Pipe   C   can   empty   it   in
12   hours.   If   all   the   three   pipes   are   opened   together,   then   the   tank   will   be   filled   in?
2. The   60   litre   mixture   contains   90%   milk   and   rest   water.   If   10   litres   of   milk   is   added

to   the   mixture,   the   amount/percentage   of   milk   in   the   mixture.

In   DBMS,   he   asked   me   the   differentiation   between   having   and   where   clause.

ROUND   3   :   (TECHNICAL   INTERVIEW   2)
It   is   also   conducted   in   zoom.   It   is   also   a   45-50   minute   interview.   I   was   given   2   coding
questions.   I   can   code   in   an   IDE   of   my   own   choice.
The   questions   are:

1. Given   an   array,   separate   the   odd   and   even   numbers   and   make   the   odd   numbers
appear   first   without   using   extra   space.   I   told   her   the   two   pointer   approach   and
coded   it.   It   passed   the   test   cases   which   she   gave.

2. Given   a   number,   we   want   to   give   the   next   safe   number.   A   number   whose   binary
representation   does   not   have   consecutive   ones   is   called   a   safe   number.   I   coded
the   brute   force   approach   which   passed   all   test   cases   she   gave.   I   explained   the
optimal   approach.

She   asked   some   questions   in   OOPS   and   OS.   Sample   questions:

1. Difference   between   process   and   thread.
2. Explain   about   Mutual   Exclusion   and   semaphores.   She   also   wants   me   to   write   a

small   code   snippet   of   mutex   lock.

The   interviewer   was   so   friendly   and   extracted   my   best.

ROUND   4   :   (HR   INTERVIEW)
It   is   also   conducted   in   zoom.   It   is   a   30   minute   interview.   It   was   a   bit   tricky   to   me   as   I   was
not   prepared   for   it.
Questions   like:

1. Tell   me   about   yourself   which   is   not   in   your   resume.
2. Which   do   you   prefer?   SmartWork   or   HardWork
3. Your   greatest   failure   in   life   and   how   you   overcame   it.
4. Your   opinion   about   teamwork.
5. What   motivates   you?
6. Your   hobbies?   I   said   reading   books.   And   we   discussed   some   of   the   books   which

I   read.

7. Why   walmart?
8. Why   did   you   choose   this   course?

She   asked   to   explain   about   one   of   my   projects.   Then   she   asked   some   questions   from
my   resume.

16   students   got   selected   and   I   was   one   of   them.

NOTE   :    Be   relaxed   and   try   to   give   your   best   to   each   question.

ALL   THE   BEST

