Internship Experience at Wells Frago
                                -by Mahalakshmi B

About the Company:

Wells Fargo & Company, an American multinational financial services corporation
headquartered in San Francisco, has a significant presence in India. Wells Fargo India is a critical
part of the company's global operations, offering services in technology, operations, and business
process management.

India is a strategic hub for Wells Fargo, playing a vital role in enabling the company to achieve
operational efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and scalability. Wells Fargo in India actively engages
in CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) initiatives, emphasizing education, community
development, environmental sustainability, and financial literacy.

Overview of the Process:

The overall process consisted of:

•  An Online coding contest (English, Aptitude, Coding)
•
•
•  HR Round – in CUIC

Interview Round 1 (Technical) – in CUIC
Interview Round 2 (Tech & Innovation) – in CUIC

Online coding contest :

The online test here was little different from those test that were conducted by other companies
since here we had questions related to Aptitude and English in addition to coding . From the
overall online test, I could understand that Wells Fargo is not only interested in your coding
knowledge, but also keen about your communication skills and logical thinking.

In the English section we had questions related to grammar and a basic Aptitude section which
involves logical thinking. I got 2 coding questions, one was easy (Sorting a nested vector) and
other was of medium (Case Study based) level and both where based on DSA. We didn’t have
any sectional time limit, so it was easy for us to grab sometime from the English and aptitude
section by answering them as fast as possible as.

TIPS :

When the question is easy, the two major things to be considered is the time  and the number of
test cases that are passed . So rather than thinking of the optimal solution for the question, try to
complete the question as soon as possible, while ensuring that all test cases are passed

While question is of medium or difficult level, now the major concern will be the number of test
cases that are passed . So aim to make your solution as versatile enough to cover all the test
cases.

In the worst case scenario, at least use some logic to satisfy the open test cases. since, most of the
people tend to leave the difficult level questions unattended and you could gain advantage of the
same.

The major thing to be considered here is that most of the companies shortlist the people based
upon the time and the effectiveness of their solution in satisfying all the test cases.

Interview Round 1 (Technical) :

My first round was based on the fundamentals of the programming in any language. The
interview started with the first basic question of  “Introduce  yourself”, and he dug deep into my
academic history and my interest towards the field that I have applied for. He questioned me on
the basics like “what is an algorithm? Why do we need it and give some examples for the
same?.” Most of the first rounds starts with the basics where they test you on the fundamental.

The concepts that have been questioned intensively are Sorting ,OOPS,DSA .

He initially questioned me on this basic concepts, the logic behind its working and how we can
implement it . As far as I know, all of my friends were given a choice to choose their favorite
language to answer these questions ( you have to justify the same ) and then they would tell us to
1st explain the algorithm, how it works and question about its working with some special cases
and then he prompted me to write code snippets (pen & paper) implementing the same.

For DSA, rather to write the code, they asked me to explain about the AVL Tree and spanning
tree ,Their working with some illustrations using pen and paper.

They didn’t give much importance to the code syntax, but rather concentrated on the concept and
my fundamental understanding of how and why does it work? What happens when we remove
certain line from the algo ? What is its practical implication and what are the situations where
this will be much useful and where it is not ? etc…

TIPS :

•  Be well prepared for the “ introduce yourself “ coz it is the first impression that you

gonna make there .

•  Be calm and patient while your answer the question that makes you look wiser.
•  Be thorough with the fundamentals of the programming language that you are strong with
and also make sure that you can logically reason the working of any algorithm or a data
structure.
•
revise the special cases, worst cases ,etc of every algorithm that you know
•  As far as I know, Wells Fargo is more interested on how strong you’re on your

fundamentals and your basics (majorly OOPS) rather than your strength in the advanced
concepts

•  Major tip to pass through the round is to speak about all the concepts that are related to
the question and try to cover most of the approached without giving the chance for the
interviewer to question about the leftover possibilities

•  Actually, covering all the approaches for the given question will make the interviewer to
dive deeper into that particular question, limiting the number of other questions to be
asked, and you may escape from the questions which might be challenging you .
•  Most of the interviewers question you based on what you utter so choose your words

wisely

Interview Round 2 (Tech & Innovation) – in CUIC

This round revolved around my resume, and it scaled up to 40 to 45 minutes, discussing about
the various projects that I did, which was very interesting and the most challenging project to me
? I was asked to discuss about the tech stack that I used and have come across ,their major
benefits and the cons of the same.

They look into the innovation that you try to achieve through your projects and also how familiar
you were with the overall working of the project, irrespective of which section that you
contributed .

The interviewer  analyzed my project and questioned me about the various other innovations that
can be implemented to scale up the project and also reason out why I  choose a particle
innovation in the field, and how will it help to get a better result? The questions were on How did
I choose a project? What was the ground work that I did  before starting the project ?  what were
the requirements that I gather to start the project? The challenges that I faced during the project
implementation and how did I overcome ?. The interviewer was very keen on understanding the
novelty behind the project.

The interviewer went through almost all of the projects and  languages that I have mentioned of
being knowledge about in my resume.

The interviewer questioned me on, how did I rank my skills in a particular language and my
knowledge about the financials and also about the company recently.

TIPS :

•  Be accountable of whatever you write in the resume
•  Make sure you mention the best projects that you did in the Resume
•  Go through your projects and tech stack, and also how did you implement the same
•  Be confident with your projects and what are your plans in extending the project in future
•  Be very patient and take time to understand the questions so that you can give the

creative and innovative idea

•  Research about the company in the recent times, and how will you able to fit into the

same?

•  Prepare for some questions that you can ask the interviewer at the end .
•  Use your logical thinking and be confident with your answers, even if it goes wrong, be

wise enough to analyse and assure them to correct it in the future.

HR Round – in CUIC

This round lasted for 15 minutes where the HR questioned me on the grounds of my professional
ethics and they were very simple, like will you move to another company when you are offered
with higher package for the same role ?

The HR was very keen on analyzing my soft skills they include the leadership qualities,
communication skills, and social skills
Some of the basic questions were :

•  About my hobbies. How will I continue it during my work?
•  What is a career and how important it is in my life?
•  What is the difference between a passion and a career?
•  What did I expect from the company and what a company can expect from me?
•  Why did I choose Wells Fargo?
•  Why should Wells Fargo choose me?  (Give me 3 reasons to hire you and 3 to not hire

you)

•  Where do I see myself in the next five years?
•  The HR gave me a scenario to analyzes and give solution based on my leadership

qualities and critical thinking

•  The HR enquired me about my contribution to clubs in the college
•  What is life defined to me?
•  What is happiness and how will I achieve it in my life?

Believe in Yourself ! All The Best !

