VASUMATHY V – INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

TECH INTERN - WELLS FARGO (JUNE-JULY 2024)

About The Company

Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational financial services company with a
significant global presence. It is a systemically important financial institution according to
the Financial Stability Board, and is considered one of the "Big Four Banks" in the United
States, alongside JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, and Citigroup.

Founded in 1852 and headquartered in San Francisco, Wells Fargo provides banking,
investment and mortgage products and services, as well as consumer and commercial finance,
through more than 7,300 locations, 12,000 ATMs, the internet (wellsfargo.com) and mobile
banking, and has offices in over 40 countries and territories to support customers who
conduct business in the global economy. With approximately 250,000 team members, Wells
Fargo serves one in three households in the United States. Wells Fargo & Company was
ranked No. 41 on Fortune’s 2022 rankings of America’s largest corporations.

Wells Fargo has offices in the United States, India (Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad) and the
Philippines.

About the Role

I worked as a Tech Intern in Wells Fargo, Chennai. The LOB (Line of Business) I worked
under was CT (Consumer Technology). Wells Fargo's consumer technology domain focuses
on enhancing digital banking through mobile and online platforms. It emphasizes
personalized customer experiences, leveraging data analytics, and improving UI/UX design
to ensure seamless and secure interactions, ultimately driving customer satisfaction and
operational efficiency in consumer banking.

Overview of the Process

1)  Online coding round

  Aptitude MCQ questions
  English MCQs
  Statistical MCQs
  2 coding questions

2)  Interview at CUIC

  Round 1 – Technical interview
  Round two – Technical / Critical thinking interview
  Round three – HR interview

Online Coding Round

The online coding round first started off with the MCQs. It consisted of statistical graph-
based questions (analyzing bar graphs, statistical figures etc.). The MCQs also consisted of
English questions. The questions were of easy to medium level difficulty.

There were two coding questions. One question was easy, the other was of medium level
difficulty.

Tips: Read the question carefully. Once you understand the question completely, use a piece
of paper to write down your approach. If you can think of an optimal approach then well and
good, but if you can’t, then do not waste too much time on searching for an optimal result.
Start coding your approach soon and move on to the next question. Do not waste too much
time on a single question. Resort to brute force if you cannot think of any other approach in
the stipulated time.

Practice your DSA consistently. Leetcode is one of the main sources I used. Everyday, do
atleast 1-2 Leetcode questions. Do a mixture of easy, medium and hard level questions.
Choose your preffered language to code in (C++ or Java or python). I used python and C++,
depending on the question and my comfort level. Another important advice a senior of mine
gave me that I followed, DO NOT get disappointed if you don’t get shortlisted for the
interview round after the online coding round. Keep trying your best and practicing regularly.
Consistency is key.

Interview at CUIC

The interview happened over 3 rounds. All three rounds were offline at CUIC and were one-
on-one.

The first round was a technical interview. The time duration varied, depending on the
interviewer we were assigned to. Mine lasted for around 30 minutes. The interviewer touched
upon all basic topics such as OS, DBMS, OOPs. He gave me a piece of paper and asked me
to solve a couple of coding questions on the spot. He also asked me technical questions. For
example, he asked me the differentiate between the types of polymorphism, when do we use
a linked list and when an array. He also asked me to optimize the code for the question he
gave. Basic OS questions on scheduling were also asked.

The second round of interview was another technical interview. The ones who were selected
after the first round moved on to the second round. In the second round, the interviewer asked
me to briefly explain the projects that I had worked on. After this, he asked me critical
thinking questions. He expected me to answer his questions as creatively as possible.
Honestly speaking, the second round was one of my favourite experiences throughout the
interview process. The interview felt more like a conversation. I took my time to answer the
questions and interreacted freely with the interviewer.

The third round was an HR round. The ones selected from the second round of interview
were directed to the third round. The third round started of with questions about myself, my
hobbies, and my experiences. It was a short round and lasted for 5 minutes.

Tips: Answer to the point. Be calm and collected. If you do not know the answer to a
question, try to answer the question but if you still do not reach the answer, then you can
politely let the interviewer know that this question is related to a topic you are yet to learn in
college or that your knowledge on this topic is limited.

The interviewer looked at my resume and asked question on the topics that I had listed as my
areas of interest (like data science, OS, DBMS). So kindly include only those topics in your
resume that you are confident in. Be strong in your basic OOPs, DBMS, OS, coding
knowledge.

For the second round, the interviewer asked me to be as creative as possible with my answers.
Hence, I had the liberty to answer creative and innovatively. I suggest that you first take a
moment to understand what the interviewer is asking and then answer accordingly.

I would suggest to work on your communication skills in English. This is key in acing an
interview.

Finally, every interviewer will ask you if you have any questions, at the end of the interview.
I would suggest you to ask some question, either about the company, the role or something
else. Never leave that question unattended.

Overall, the experience was smooth. I learned a lot from the entire interview process. Every
interview is an experience, regardless of the result.

