WELLS FARGO INTERVIEW
EXPERIENCE(INTERNSHIP)

-Dharaniraj VM [2022115058]

About the Company:

Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational financial

services company with a significant global presence. The company
operates in 35 countries and serves over 70 million customers
worldwide. It is a systemically important financial institution
according to the Financial Stability Board. It is considered one of the
"Big Four Banks" in the United States, alongside JPMorgan Chase,
Bank of America, and Citigroup.

Number Of Rounds: 4

1. Online Test

2. Interview Round 1

3. Interview Round 2 (Senior Manager Round)

4. HR Round

Online Test:

The online round was conducted in SHL (Aspiring Minds)

platform. This round was conducted in our department lab. The
round consisted of 3 sections namely verbal aptitude, business
aptitude and coding. Both aptitude sections had MCQs which had to
be answered compulsorily, and free navigation was prohibited. The
first two sections were common for all whereas the third section was
different for all.

1. Verbal Aptitude: 12 MCQs to be solved in 15 minutes. Questions
focused on grammar corrections, vocabulary, and 4-5 reading
comprehension-based questions

 2. Business Aptitude: 14 MCQs to be solved in 25 minutes. Pie
charts bar charts and candlestick charts were given. Analytical
questions will be asked from that. The questions were too long and
hence I was unable to complete the last 4,5 questions.

3.Coding round 1:(40 minutes)

The questions will be too long. But the underlying concept will

be very easier. Please don’t waste much time on the question. The
difficulty level of both the questions were easy.

The first question was to find how many characters are at the
same position even after string reversal. The question was not this
direct.

The second question was “Given a number n, the task is to find

the smallest number that can be made out of it by making suitable
rearrangements. The length of the number should be same. “

Eg: If the number is 743, the smallest number you can make is 347.

Coding round 2:(10 minutes):  A detailed explanation about the
Seven Bridges of Königsberg problem was given. The task was to
determine, given a starting vertex V, a list of edges E, and a visited
array, whether the problem is solvable (returning true or false).

22 students were shortlisted for the interviews, which took place at
MIT

Interview Process:

The interview process consisted of three rounds: Here are some of
the questions I can recollect for each round:

Round 1:

I was firstly asked to introduce myself before which the

interviewer had gone through my resume well. Then he started

asking me about a project on Graphs that implemented vertex cover
algorithm. The interviewer understood that I knew the concept well.
But he wasn’t satisfied with my application. I accepted the
shortcomings of our project. Accept your mistakes if pointed out at
the interview. I included teaching as a hobby in my resume, So he
asked me to give me a five-minute lecture on Data structures. Then
he asked me some questions on distributed databases as my resume
had MongoDB in it. He also taught me some concepts on Distributed
databases later.  Then he asked me about some graph algorithms. I
explained them well. The interview took place for about 30-40
minutes.

In general, some questions asked in the interview was related to

•  Some popular algorithms and their performances (time

complexity)

•  Questions were asked from DBMS (to write SQL queries)
•  Operating systems (about process scheduling,kernel,etc..)
•  DSA questions on two pointer approach, linked list and trees
•  Some were asked questions on Software Engineering ( Agility,

Process models)

ROUND 2:

Round 2 was also a technical round. But for us the interviewer asked
us to ask him questions that we wanted to ask a technical guy
actively working in the industry. One of the questions I asked was

•  I am interested in NLP and want to do projects in the domain.
Do you feel that I have good opportunities in the industry to
take that as my career?

Others were asked about their projects in the second round. I
explained all about my projects in the first round itself.

ROUND 3:HR

Round 3 was a very usual HR interview and the questions were “what
are your strengths and weakness”, “Is there anything that you do
apart from your academics”, “What will be your mindset when you
work as a team for projects?” “How confident are you about getting
placed in Wells?”.

I would suggest that it is not mandatory to use the same safe
answers available on the internet. That can at times make them feel
that you are reciting the answers. You can share your perspectives
confidently. Answer with a smile

And finally of the 22 selected for the interview, the company
provided internship for 12.

PREPARATION STRATEGY:

I started to prepare for the internship drives only during my 4th

semester holidays. I started CP somewhere during the mid of 3rd
semester but then I was not consistent at all. So my active
preparation started after 4th semester. ACM’s documents were the
only resource I followed. If possible, find a partner to practice with,
exchange your solutions and discuss with them. I think practising in
random doesn’t work..So follow a schedule starting from arrays,
strings and ending with DP and high-level topics. Easy and medium
level questions are more than sufficient is what I feel.

Following a schedule is the best tip I can give because we tend

to be focussed. ACM’s schedule will be helpful. Solve easy to medium
problems on each topic and attempt a quiz at the weekend. That is
sufficient and you are getting into some top companies. Don’t take
too much stress. We are never too late to start.

After companies started to come have this in mind,

One thing we can do from our side is to work. If it turns
positive, fine else no problem; something big is waiting. Luck also
plays a big role in the process. So it doesn’t mean your works are not
benefitted. Never lose your confidence in any step of preparation.
We will work. Something big is always waiting for us!

Always feel free to text, call or meet us for any kind of help! We

will work together!

Dharaniraj V M(2022115058)

Contact:9976231117

