YUTHIKSHAA M - INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

–  SDE INTERN AT ZOOMRX

About the Company:

ZoomRx is a strategic healthcare consulting firm that operates at the intersection
of data, healthcare, and technology to drive meaningful impact. With a mission
to  support  innovators  behind  life-changing  therapies,  the  company  combines
deep  expertise,  a  proprietary  research  platform,  and  a  curated  community  of
healthcare  providers.  ZoomRx  emphasizes  tighter  collaboration  and  smarter
processes, focusing on asking the right questions, delivering insightful analyses,
and  uncovering  truths  within  complex  markets  to  help  clients  make  informed
decisions and create lasting change in the healthcare industry.

About the role:

Software Development Engineer – Tech at ZoomRx focuses on developing high-
performance  web  applications  and  APIs.  The  role  involves  collaborating  with
senior engineers to execute the software development lifecycle (SDLC), writing
efficient  code,  and  participating  in  code  reviews.  Key  tasks  include  debugging
software,  documenting  processes,  and  working  with  stakeholders  to  gather
requirements and design user-friendly interfaces. This position offers the chance
to  work  with  innovative  technologies  and  contribute  to  impactful  solutions
aligned with the company’s vision.

Overview of the process:

  Coding test (Online)
  Technical Interview (Online)
  HR Interview (Online)

Online coding test:
Duration: 1 hr 30 mins

It  was  informed  that  the  online  test  would  be  conducted  in  the  morning,
followed by the technical interview in the afternoon on the same day.

The  online  coding  test  was  conducted  on  iMocha.  There  were  2  components:

1.Multiple Choice Question (Time limit: 30 mins)
2.Coding Problems (Time limit: 1 hr)

The 25 MCQs included 20 intermediate-level CS questions (DBMS, OOPS, DSA)
and 5 aptitude questions.

2nd section consisted of 2 coding problems. Both were medium level questions.

1)https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-
ii/description/

2) A 2-D array type problem (little harder than the previous qn).

I completed the test before 25 mins and got selected for the technical interview.

Technical Interview:
Duration: 2 hrs

For this round, 23 students were shortlisted: 10 in the first batch and 13 in the
second batch. I was in the 2nd batch.

The interview was conducted via Microsoft Teams, where two panel members
interviewed me. Questions included are

  Introduce about yourself
  How  was  your  coding  round?  [They  shared  my  code  of  the  2-D  array
problem and asked me to explain each line of it. Since it was on the same
day I done it easily.]

  Gave me 2 coding problems. First one was to find the sum of 2 octal strings
as  an  octal  string.  I  told  the  approach.  Then  the  2nd  question  is
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-all-pairs-with-given-
sum/#expected-approach-using-hash-map-on-time-and-on-space.
I
explained  my  approach  before  coding  and  then  started  coding  using
HashMap with time complexity of O(n^2). They then asked me to optimize

it. I told the solution with O(n) time complexity; didn’t asked me to code
it.

  Explain your recent project clearly
  How much would you rate yourself for OOPS, OS, DBMS and DSA?
  Questions in all four of them like

  OOPS – 4 main concepts’ short explanation, a real-life application

where 4 of them is used altogether

  OS – Deadlocks
  DBMS – Normalization, 2 SQL questions(One to write query using

JOINS, the other in oral like what will you use? - GROUPBY)

  Data Structures – List all DS you know, difference between Array and
ArrayList, Types of trees, BST, BFS and DFS, given an example what
DS will you use? (stack), real-life application of LinkedList (gave me
clues to find), DS you used in any of your projects

  How will you design an Elevator system using OOP principles? [Discussed
various  use-cases,  assumptions,  requirements,  class  diagrams  and
interfaces involved].

  Any questions?
  What  all  companies  you  attended  interview  before  and  few  of  its

experiences?

I felt like this two-hour session covered a wide range of topics. I tried answering
most of the questions and even when I struggled in few they helped me. It was
like a friendly conversation.

9 students were shortlisted for the next round.

HR Interview:
Duration: 1 hr

It was also a teams meet. This round consisted of both Technical questions and
HR  questions.  For  some  candidates,  the  round  focused  primarily  on  HR
questions.

  The  interview  began  with  questions  about  my  native  place  and  current

semester.

  Introduce about yourself
  Explain your recent project clearly

  What tech stacks you used? What new things have you learnt from your

project?

  Why  you  used MongoDB? Advantage of using MongoDB than  relational

DB. Difference between SQL and NoSQL.

  What are some new trending technologies? What is GPT?
  In what all ways will you learn any new skill?
  What all  happens from entering a  URL (eg:  https://www.udemy.com) in

the browser to get a page? What all protocols used?

  Difference between HTTP and HTTPS
  What is public key cryptography? List some algorithms used in it. Hashing?
  Why you have taken IT?
  One thing that you are pride of yourself? What are the steps taken by you

for that?

  If you want to go back and change something in your life, what will it be?
  One thing that you wish to improve yourself.
  Tell me about your family.
  Why you want to join ZoomRx?
  Any questions?
  What all companies you attended interview before? He asked about the
rounds  I  had  undergone,  the  concepts  discussed  during  the  group
discussion of my previous interview, my points, and the reason that I think
for my rejections in those.

Finally 3 candidates were selected and I’m one among them.

Tricks that I followed:

  Paying attention during the PPT helped me frame questions to ask during

the interview.

  I completed my online test as soon as possible as mentioned earlier.
  I  researched  the  company  before  the  tests  and  referred  to  previous
interview experiences on GFG. From that I came to know that DP problems
were not much asked in ZoomRx. So, I prepared based on that.

  Revised  the  topics  in  DBMS,  SQL,  OS,  OOPS  and  DSA.  My  previous

interview experiences helped me a lot.

Preparation Strategy:

  I began preparing for placements during my 6th-semester holidays, which

I would not recommend.

  I  used  senior’s  preparation  materials  for  some  concepts  and  practiced

coding in HackerRank and LeetCode.

  Before  any  company’s  interview  I  used  to  refer  senior’s  placement
experience  for  that  company  (if  any)  or  in  GFG,  Glassdoor  or  other
websites.

  Even after I faced many rejections, I didn’t lose hope and soon made me

ready taking only the things to improve myself to get selected.

Suggestions:

  Start preparing at least before your internships in the 3rd year, and most
importantly, take the internships seriously and aim to get selected. That
makes  you  feel  less  burden  in  the  7th  semester.  Even  if  you  don’t  get
selected, the preparation will definitely help you.

  Only include what you know in your resume.
  Believe in yourself.. Don’t ever lose hope and Always be confident!

