 
 
 
 
 
Wells Fargo EGS 
 
About Wells Fargo 
 
Wells Fargo provides banking, investment and mortgage products and services, as well as 
consumer and commercial finance, through 8,050 locations, 13,000 ATMs, the internet 
(wellsfargo.com) and mobile banking, and has offices in 38 countries and territories to support 
customers who conduct business in the global economy 
Source: Linkedin page of Wells Fargo 
 
Number of rounds 
The recruitment process had a total of 4 rounds. 
1. Online round 
2. Technical round 1 
3. Technical round 2 
4. HR round 
 
Details about the rounds 
 
Round 1: Online round: 
 
This round had questions ranging under different sections to test our skills under 
respective categories. There was a general aptitude section, technical MCQs, a coding section 
that consisted of 1 or 2 questions. There was also a business knowledge section that had 
questions regarding stocks, gain and loss etc,. This round happened on an online platform. The 
students who were shortlisted from this round moved to the next round of interviews. 
 
Round 2: Technical round 1: 
 
This round was conducted on zoom.  Questions on basic and advanced data structures, 
Operating systems, Databases and Computer organisation were the key focus. Few questions on 
specific skills I had mentioned in my resume were also asked. 
 
Round 3: Technical round 2: 
 
This round majorly focussed on skills and projects that were mentioned in my resume. 
These questions were framed in such a way to include further requirements to the problem 
statements I have mentioned and how I would extend my ideas to meet the requirements. 
 
Round 4: HR round: 
 
In this round, communication skills and attitude were the main things checked. Few 
questions on my earlier internships and how I got them were asked. The main point was to check 
how social and communicatively able I was, to voice out my ideas and gel to a team. 
 
 
 
Questions asked 
Though I don't exactly remember all the questions, here is how much I can recollect. 
 
The questions in round 1 had technical MCQs on areas like Databases, Computer 
organisation and Operating systems. Debugging and programming based questions were also 
present. For business analysis related questions, questions on stocks etc were asked.  One coding 
question was based on graph and other on arrays. 
 
 
In the interview round that happened for around an hour, first questions on basic data 
structures, sorting were asked. Then, I was asked to share screen and code basic problems in 
arrays and linked lists. 
 
Next, questions on Operating system, databases, dynamic programming were asked to 
test my understanding in these concepts. Questions specific to the skills I had put in the resume 
were asked. Since my areas of interests were Machine learning and Natural language processing, 
a few questions to test my basic knowledge in this area were asked. I was also asked on what 
kind of technical issues would these technologies, say autonomous driving, face in its efficient 
operation. 
 
The second technical round was majorly focussed on the projects I mentioned in my 
resume. Specific questions on the methodology I used were the main areas tested. The 
interviewer extended the problem statement to include newer details and asked me how I would 
solve them efficiently. A few questions on supervised and unsupervised learning, advanced data 
structures like trees and graphs were asked. 
 
The HR round was like a casual talk where the interviewer asked me about my interests, 
previous internships and family background. The main focus was to test my confidence, attitude 
and communication skills. 
 
Topics to be focussed 
 
 Data structures: Arrays, Linked lists, stacks, queues, trees and graphs 
 A basic understanding of dynamic programming and greedy programming (optimal 
substructures and overlapping subproblems, how to approach a DP problem etc) 
 Virtual memory (paging and segmentation), Relations in databases, Memory organisation 
were the frequently tested areas in MCQs 
 
Take away 
 
 
Usually interviewers expect candidates to be punctual and clearly focused. Answer the 
questions in a precise and detailed manner. Do not abstract or assume their questions, always 
answer in such a way that the central point of the answer is clear and other details are clearly 
explained. 
 
 
For questions in the lines of “Tell me about yourself”, answer in a much realistic way, 
say, a brief introduction on your family and academic background and how you found your area 
of interest etc,.  
 
 
Do not add projects or skills you don’t have. Recollect the details about the projects 
you’ve done so that you can precisely elaborate.  
 
Articulate your thoughts well in mind and start answering, do not be nervous. 
 
Communication matters, but even if your English isn’t great, it’s nothing to worry about. 
All that matters is if you are able to answer their questions and convey your ideas clearly. 
Note down the issues faced in one online exam or interview and try to sort them out in the next 
interviews. 
 
ALL THE BEST! 
 
Name: Aarthy K P 
Mailid: aarthymaha2000@gmail.com 
