MathWorks Internship  
Batch: 2019-2023 
About the company: 
MathWorks is an American privately held corporation that specializes in mathematical 
computing software. Its major products include MATLAB and Simulink, which support data 
analysis and simulation. 
Number of Rounds:  4 
1) Online Coding Round + Mcqs 
2) Group Discussion 
3) Managerial Round 
4) HR Round 
ONLINE ROUND: 
Platform: HackerRank 
This round consists of 10 Multiple choice questions from DSA, C,OS ,DBMS and 2 coding 
questions one of easy level and the other with medium difficulty. The total time given for 
both the sections  was 60 mins. 
Questions Asked: 
1) Make all the array elements equal. 
2) This was a medium level question related to arrays. 
A total of 11 students were shortlisted for the next rounds. 
The next day we had a PPT(Pre placement talk) at 8:30 a.m. 
Note: Listen to the PPT carefully as many questions were asked from that. 
Group Discussion: 
Platform: Zoom 
All the shortlisted students participated in this round.  
TOPIC: Which is more important? Higher Education or Work Experience. 
From 11 students only 2 of us were selected for the further rounds. 
 
Note:   
• I started the conversation which I think gave me an upper hand over my other 
friends. 
• It is always necessary to stand on your point and not get manipulated by the opinion 
of others. 
• My key point with which I proceeded in this GD - Both higher education and work 
experience are inter-dependent and they are not mutually exclusive. 
Managerial Round: 
This round lasted for about 30 -35 mins. 
Platform: Zoom 
The interview started with questions like 
• Which is your favourite subject and why? 
• My favourite project and what did I explore newly while doing that project? 
• I was asked many questions from the PPT like , Name the products of MathWorks? 
• Tell us something about the EDG program and many more 
• What are your strengths and weakness? 
• How are you improving your weakness? 
• The interviewer then asked me a coding question related to stacks. I wasn’t asked to 
code it . I gave my approach and then he asked me an optimized approach, I 
managed to give my approach. 
• Finally the interviewer asked me to choose a branch for work 
(Bangalore/Hyderabad). 
Note: 
• Talk with utmost confidence. 
• Have a nice big smile and positive attitude. 
HR Round: 
This round lasted for 10 – 15 mins. 
Platform: Zoom 
The  interviewer greeted me and asked me general questions like tell me about yourself , 
Why MathWorks?, What do you know about MathWorks EDG program?, Which location did 
you select for your internship and why? And a few more questions. Finally she asked me if I 
had any questions. I asked her how did I perform and where should I improve as it was my 
first HR interview. She said that I  have attentively listened to the PPT and I was well 
prepared. She bid goodbye by saying looking forward to working with you. 
Final Result: 
On the same day around 8 p.m. I got to know that I was the only person from our batch 
selected for the internship at MathWorks. 
 
To keep in mind: 
• Prepare an introduction and speak clearly. 
• Try to maintain a good rapport with the interviewer and show them that your 
excited to be there. 
• Never lie in the resume. 
• Have a thorough knowledge of what you’ve put in the  resume. 
• For coding practice from leetcode explore, gfg. 
• Don’t lose hope . Keep practicing and surely you will be selected by one of the 
companies. 
• Read GFG’s archives of internship experiences of that particular companies which 
will give us an insight of how the process flow will be. 
 
 
Adarshini.K 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/adarshini-k-1264781b0/ 
  
 
 
 
ALL THE BEST ! 
