Name: Adhithya K 
Department: Computer Science and Engineering 
Company placed: Walmart Global Tech India 
Job Position: Software Engineer 2 
 
Round 1: Online Test 
Time Duration: 60 minutes 
Platform: HackerEarth 
Pattern: 
1) 10 technical MCQs belonging to OOPS, OS, DBMS, Networks and SQL 
2) 2 Coding questions of medium-hard level 
 
Level of difficulty: Medium-Hard 
 
Resources you referred to: GeeksforGeeks, Interviewbit. 
How did you handle the questions: I read the entire question twice. Then I tried to rephrase 
the questions and recalled the concepts related to it. By doing this I was able to answer all the 
questions with good accuracy. 
 
Tips you would suggest for your juniors to pass this round: This is the most important 
round hence one should be strong in CS fundamentals and data structures. 
Count of people shortlisted after this round: 20 students were shortlisted for the next round 
 
Round 2 : Technical Interview 
Time Duration: 50-60 minutes 
Platform: Zoom 
Level of difficulty: Medium-Hard 
I was asked to introduce myself and then we went straight to the technical questions. 
 
Coding questions asked: 
1) Find if a number is prime number or not (I was asked to explain all possible solutions 
with detailed time and space complexities). 
2) Given a binary tree in which each node element contains a number. Find the maximum 
possible path sum from one leaf node to another leaf node (I was asked to explain all 
possible solutions with detailed time and space complexities). (Tree) 
3) Max length Chain - You are given N pairs of numbers. In every pair, the first number is 
always smaller than the second number. A pair (c, d) can follow another pair (a, b) if b < 
c. Chain of pairs can be formed in this fashion. You have to find the longest chain which 
can be formed from the given set of pairs. (DP) 
 
4) I was given 3 aptitude questions based on speed-distance-time, LCM-HCF and Profit-
Loss. 
5) Various questions on Threading, Paging, Java fundamentals, OOPS, SQL were asked. 
 
Tips: Prepare the CS core subjects very well as they are equally important as DSA. 
 
Round 3: Technical Interview 2 
Time Duration: 1.5 hours 
Platform: Zoom 
Level of difficulty: Medium-Hard 
I was asked to introduce myself and then we went straight to the technical questions. 
 
Coding questions asked: 
1) Print the tree nodes in zigzag manner. (Tree DS) 
2) Write a function to get the intersection point of two Linked Lists (I was asked to explain 
all possible solutions with detailed time and space complexity analysis). (Linked List DS) 
3) Binary Tree to Doubly Linked List (Tree and DLL) 
4) Given a list of unique words, return all the pairs of the distinct indices (i, j) in the given 
list, so that the concatenation of the two words (words[i] + words[j]) is a palindrome. (Trie 
DS). 
5) Various questions related to Java, OS, OOPS and Networks. 
 
Tips: Always start answering the questions with Brute-Force approach, and then optimize the 
solutions. 
 
Round 4: HR Interview 
Time Duration: 30 mins 
Platform: Zoom 
 
1) I was asked questions based on my resume. 
2) We had a long discussion about Walmart, innovations at Walmart and technologies 
which Walmart was working in. 
 
List of HR questions asked: 
1) Difference between Hardwork and SmartWork 
2) I was given 2 scenarios and asked how would I react to them. 
 
Your suggestions for juniors in cracking this round: 
1) Always give honest answers and be confident while you answer. 
 
Tips on resume preparation: 
1) Update Your Contact Details (Add Linkedin, GeeksforGeeks, Leetcode, Github, 
Codechef, Codeforces links if available). 
2) Present Your Education Properly. 
3) Layout and Format is important. 
4) List your experiences in reverse chronological format. 
5) Add experiences that are relevant to the job description. 
6) Customize your resume to each company and each job position. 
 
Overall tips how to ace the placements: 
1) Don’t be nervous or stressed during interviews. Ask your friends or seniors to conduct 
mock interviews. This will help you gain confidence. 
2) Always be ready with your real life stories for the soft skills that you have mentioned in 
your resume. 
3) Be consistent in your preparations. 
4) Take care of all the edge cases while writing code. You must know how to calculate time 
and space complexities. 
 
 
Contact Details: 
Adhithya K 
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/adhithya-karthikeyan/ 
8883018311 
 
 
