NETRADYNE INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 2024 
 
 
 
 
ABOUT THE COMPANY: 
              Since its inception in 2015, Netradyne has pioneered fleet safety with cutting-edge 
A.I. and data solutions. With over 275 patents, Netradyne combines AI and video to 
revolutionize vehicle telematics by detecting and analyzing driving events. They empower 
drivers through positive reinforcement, enhancing safety and performance. Their Driver•i 
solution reduces accidents, improves safety scores, and lowers insurance costs, driving fleet 
success. Netradyne is transforming the future of fleet safety and performance. 
 
 
 
 
Total Rounds: 
1. Online Assessment 
2. Technical Interview -1 
3. Technical Interview -2 
4. Technical Interview -3(Based on Perfomance)[ I did not have this round] 
5. HR interview 
 
1. Online Assessment (30th October)[CUIC lab]: 
• 
Aptitude: Standard level of difficulty. 
• 
Coding Questions: There were three questions, varying from moderate to high 
difficulty. While none were standard questions, they were quite understandable. I 
managed to solve one question fully and partially address the other two. 
My Department IV was on the 31st. I thought it would be great if I got selected and could 
go for the IV. Hopefully, I got selected for the next round. 
2. Technical Interview Round 1 (31st October): 
• Introduction: Standard introductory questions. 
• Project Discussion: Detailed discussion on all my projects, with a focus on my 
network and machine learning project. 
• Debugging: Was given a code snippet with an infinite loop and asked to debug it. I 
did it easily. 
• SQL Question: A medium difficulty question that I wasn’t able to answer correctly. 
• Coding: A question related to my machine learning project. 
Despite the SQL question and not providing an optimized solution to the coding 
question initially, the interviewer was trying to guide me toward a better solution. 
With the guidance of the interviewer, I provided an optimal solution. 
I was not confident that I would be selected for the next round because I made a 
mistake in SQL and did not provide an optimized solution initially. But, I got 
selected. 
3. Technical Interview Round 2: 
• Introduction: Standard introductory questions. 
• DBMS Project: Discussed my DBMS project, including the ER diagram, with in-
depth questions. 
• Technical Questions: 
o Sorting Algorithms: Discussed merge sort and its efficiency with time 
complexity comparisons. Asked to write down the merge sort code fully and 
explain it with an example. The interviewer seemed satisfied after my 
explanation. 
o OOP Concepts: Initially used standard examples but later provided a tailored 
example that satisfied the interviewer. When I first mentioned GFG examples, 
the interviewer noted, “The earlier person said the same thing!” I laughed and 
said it is a standard example and provided a real-life example. He looks 
impressed after providing a real life example. 
 
• System Design: Initially asked to design the system for Book My Show, which was 
later simplified to just the structure and functioning of the system. 
o Storing user data in Book My Show. 
o Asked to Draw ER diagram for book my show with required entities and 
Asked questions about primary key, super key etc… 
o How do you Differentiate between booked and non-booked seats in Book My 
Show?. 
o The interviewer asked many ques5ons related to data handling and data ﬂow, 
and I was able to provide sa5sfactory answers. 
 
• Time Complexity and Space Complexity Questions: These were kind of tricky, but 
the interviewer guided and involved me well. Asked, "When does O(x) complexity 
exceed o(y) where x & y are some values?". 
At the end of this round, the interviewer wished me well and said they would meet me again, 
which gave me a positive feeling about my performance. 
I was sure that I would be selected for the next round, but some of the candidates had one 
more technical round and were rejected. So, I was slightly scared. But I got selected directly 
to the HR round. 
 
4. HR Round: 
• 
Basic HR Questions: Covered typical HR topics. 
• 
Company Roles: Explained various roles in the company and based on my interview 
performance, suggested the Biz System role. Initially unsure about this role, I was 
provided with a real-life example that helped me understand and accept the Biz 
System role. 
Overall, the process was intense but engaging, and I’m optimistic about the outcome based on 
the feedback I received. The experience was both challenging and rewarding, and I look 
forward to the next steps. 
 
 
Verdict : Selected 
 
P.S : Throughout the interview, I balanced my stress with the thought of the 
departmental IV on the same day. I joked to myself, “If I don’t pass the round, 
at least I can pack my dress for IV and still be ahead!” My stress-free attitude 
in Technical Interview Round 2 helped me pass it. Don’t lose hope ,it’s my 10th 
interview after getting clearing the online round. All the best for your 
interviews.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact: 
AJAY S, 
CSE-CEG’24, 
ajaysaravanan1911@gmail.com, 
9626415957. 
 
