 
 
 
VERIZON DATA SERVICES INDIA Pvt Ltd 
 
 
Verizon is the #1 wireless provider in the U.S. and a global leader in next generation com-
munications technology, including 5G and the Internet of Things. IT teams in India play a critical 
role in both the development of new technologies and the day-to-day operation of business. They 
build systems and work on initiatives to help deliver unmatched digital experiences to consumers 
and businesses. In short, they are obsessed with everything the digital world has to offer. 
 
 
Round 1: Platform - AMCAT 
 
Round 1 was conducted on AMCAT platform. The test was of 2 hours, and a time limit imposed on 
every section. 
 
Quantitative aptitude- This section was mostly basic math problems. They were quite easy but 
a few needed lot of calculation ,so had to be done fast . 
 
Verbal - You can do this section well with a decent English knowledge . A few tricky questions 
based on grammar, were asked. A few synonyms and antonyms were also asked.  
 
Logical Reasoning- General logical reasoning questions like pattern , number series ,logical 
deduction, etc were asked. With a good practise , most of these questions can be answered fast. 
 
Technical MCQ-  C, C++, Java and general programming questions. Need to be strong in the 
basics to do well in the section. 
 
Coding section: There were two questions -One easy and one Medium level, based on arrays 
and strings. 
 
All the sections can be attended well with practise. There are a lot of websites for that. Coding part 
can be done well only with practise. Make sure at least one coding question is done completely and 
all the test cases are passed.  
 
 
Round 2: Technical 
I was asked to introduce myself . Since I said I am interested in Machine Learning ,most of my 
questions were based on that. 
 
Questions: 
 
1. What is machine learning? 
2. Difference between ML and AI? 
3. Real time application in which ML is used. 
4. How that application uses ML? For what purpose? 
5. How does Amazon Shopping App use ML? 
6. How can we fetch data faster from a large database ? 
7. What are data structures?Name a few? 
8. Real time applications for the data structures. 
9. How will you choose the right data structure for a project? 
10. 
What the programming languages you know? 
 
I was not asked anything from my Resume. All the questions were being asked from the answers I 
gave to the previously asked questions. So try not to tell about something you aren’t quite familiar 
 
 
with. Also do have a good knowledge about the projects and the technologies you have used that 
you have mentioned in your CV/Resume.  
 
 
HR: 
 
 It was a really easy round which was a phone call interview. 
 
1. Tell me about yourself. 
2. A situation in which you have performed well . 
3. Do you have any preference for the place of work? 
4. Are you ready to do any kind of work given? 
 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
 
◆ Data structures 
◆ OOPS 
◆ Database management systems 
◆ At least two programming languages very well and the basics of a few other languages. 
 
 
Talk confidently and be cool while answering the questions. Try to answer all the questions but it’s 
also okay if you don’t know the answer to a few.  
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Akshita Arunkumar 
akshinishi@gmail.com 
