Barclays 
 
Barclays is a British multinational banking and financial services company 
headquartered in London, with a rich history dating back to 1690. It operates globally, 
providing a wide range of banking, investment, and wealth management services to 
individuals, businesses, and institutions. With a significant presence in the United 
Kingdom and an international footprint, Barclays offers retail and corporate banking, 
investment banking, asset management, and credit card services. The bank has been 
involved in various philanthropic initiatives and is known for its commitment to 
sustainability and environmental practices. 
 
Hiring Role: HTD Intern 
 
There were 2 Rounds: 
 
 Online Test 
 Technical + HR Round 
 
Online Test: 
 
Duration: 45 minutes 
 
There were around 24 MCQs, 3 Programming Questions and 5 SQL based questions. 
It was conducted in HackerEarth platform. The MCQs were based on Java, C, C++, 
DBMS, SQL, OOPS and to find the output for a given pseudocode. Having a strong 
knowledge of CS fundamentals and DBMS will be sufficient to clear this round. 
 
The SQL queries were also basic and straightforward. 
 
Technical + HR Round:  
 
Duration: 30 minutes 
 
The interviewer first greeted me and asked for my introduction. He then went through 
my resume and asked me some basic questions about C++ and OOPS concept. 
 
The questions included:  
 What is the need for a class? 
 Difference between object and class? 
 What is encapsulation? 
 What is Data Abstraction and how to achieve it? 
 
Later, he also tested my knowledge on Ethical hacking and how banks incorporate the 
necessary safety measures. He asked me about the static method, its uses and how 
it can be used in a program. I had mentioned some certificates that I had got in my 
resume. Some questions were also based on my certificates. 
 
 
 
Project: 
 
This is the backbone of your resume. You need to be thorough with your projects and 
most importantly your Resume.  
 
Some questions he asked me were, 
 What are the security features? 
 The tech stack that you used for this project? 
 Why did you choose this project? 
 
Add your projects to your GitHub account since some interviewers might check your 
profile and it might give a good impression about you. 
 
In my HR Round and some basic questions like the following were asked. 
 Why do you want to work here? 
 Where do you see yourself in 5 years? 
 Tell me about your strengths and weaknesses? 
 
In the end, he asked me if I had any questions for him. I had asked him about the work 
culture and the advice that he would give me as an Intern. 
 
Around 15 students were selected and I was lucky to be one among them. 
 
Tips: 
 
1. Be confident while answering the questions. 
2. Be thorough and keep revising subjects like DSA, OS and most importantly 
DBMS. 
3. Be truthful to your resume. Mostly questions will be based on what you mention 
in your resume. 
4. Read the job description and you must do a research about the company. 
5. Refer to the company's website to learn about RISES. 
 
 
All the Best!! 
 
Contact: 
 
Alagappan Senthilkumar 
 
Email: skalagappan03@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
