 
 
 
               MICRON TECHNOLOGY 
 
Micron Technology, Inc. is an American producer of computer memory and computer data 
storage including dynamic random-access memory, flash memory, and USB flash drives. It is 
headquartered in Boise, Idaho. Its consumer products are marketed under the brands Crucial 
and Ballistix. 
Number of rounds: 3 
Round 1: MCQs (Online Test) 
I have applied for Test Solution engineer Role. 
MCQs composed of various sections ex: Aptitude, Problem Solving, Semiconductors & 
Electronics related which includes 8085 Microprocessor, Logic circuits, Gates, Latches, 
Multiplexers, MOSFET etc. 
Round 2: Technical Interview (30 min)  
Two panels interviewed me, one for CSE related questions & other panel for ECE questions 
1. Introduce yourself. 
2. Which programming language do you prefer? (I preferred c++, c) 
3. What’s the use of namespace in c++ programs? 
4. Maximum length of identifier in C? 
5. OOPS concepts. 
6. Distinguish between abstract class and interface? 
7. Explain the various type of access modifiers? 
8. Distinguish between Method overloading and method overriding? 
9. Write a program to print prime numbers up to N. 
10. Factorial Program. 
11. Given a code and I was asked to explain the logic (Method overloading) 
12. Explain about working of PN junction Diode? 
13. What’s p-type & n-type? 
14. What do you know about semiconductors?  
15. MOSFET basics? 
16. Symbol of MOSFET? 
17. What do you know about N-Channel & P-Channel? 
18. Explain any 2 projects from your resume. 
19. I mentioned an Embedded project in my resume, panel asked me to explain that too. 
In this round they are about to check your technical knowledge on both programming & 
electronics also the way of understanding of the given problem statement. 
And some general questions like, you are from cse background & why Micron? Will you 
manage electronics related work? What do you know about your role (TSE)? Explain? 
Do you have any questions??? 
 
Round 3: Managerial + HR (1 hour) 
Again, two panels interviewed me. It went so long with lots of Technical, Managerial & Hr 
related questions. 
Technical: 
1. Introduce yourself. 
2. Which programming language do you prefer? (I preferred c++, c) 
3. What do you mean by Deep copy & Shallow Copy? 
4. What are Near, Far & Huge pointers? 
5. Can we have recursive inline function? 
6. Difference between c & c++? 
7. Token in c++? 
8. What is Diamond problem? 
9. Explain OOPS concepts? 
10. Explain the term Layman? 
11. Explain Ohms law? 
12. What are pentavalent & trivalent impurities? (with examples) 
13. What is multimeter? 
14. How to test voltage and power? 
15. What do you know about DC power supply? 
16. What are forward & reverse Voltages? 
17. Explain Current, Voltage, Power in general terms? 
Managerial: 
1. Explain your Embedded project in detail? 
2. How will you explain about voltage, power to your watchman? 
3. Explain about your role TSE & what are your responsibilities? 
4. Since my role includes testing, panel asked me some questions related to testing,  
ex: How will you test working of your project? 
5. Explain your embedded project code & modules? 
HR: 
1. Tell me about your family background? 
2. Tell me about your interests? 
3. What is the most challenging part of your life? 
4. Some questions related to my achievements. 
5. Do you want to pursue higher studies? I replied No, they motivated me to pursue 
higher studies. 
6. Why don’t you tried to join in IITs or NIT college? 
7. Why Micron? 
8. Do you have any questions??? 
 
 
 
Topics to be focussed:  
• Semiconductors, MOSFET, PN-junction etc 
• Memories 
• Basic ECE concepts 
• Important CSE concepts 
Take away: 
Having a good knowledge on CSE & ECE concepts with good programming knowledge will 
help to get placement in Micron Technology. 
Be Honest and Confident about what you are saying. For any doubts feel free to contact me. 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Name: Anusha Reddy 
Mail id: anusha.kota66@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
