Barclays 
Barclays is a British multinational banking and financial services company 
headquartered in London, with a rich history dating back to 1690. It operates 
globally, providing a wide range of banking, investment, and wealth 
management services to individuals, businesses, and institutions. With a 
significant presence in the United Kingdom and an international footprint, 
Barclays offers retail and corporate banking, investment banking, asset 
management, and credit card services. The bank has been involved in various 
philanthropic initiatives and is known for its commitment to sustainability and 
environmental practices. 
 
Hiring Role: HTD Technology Graduate Analyst 
The hiring process is divided into 2 Rounds. 
 Online Test 
 Technical + HR Round 
Online Test: 
Platform: HackerEarth 
Duration: 1hr 30mins 
It consists of 12 MCQs, 1 SQL Query, and 1 coding question. 
They were based on Java, C, and C++, and find the output of given pseudocode, 
DBMS, SQL, and OOPs. Having a strong knowledge of CS fundamentals and 
SQL will help you clear this round. Practice more technical aptitude and predict 
the output questions.  
The SQL query was straightforward. It was an easy one. It was just a simple 
question framed into a very big paragraph. 
The coding question:   
Lexicographically smallest string 
Reference: 
https://leetcode.com/discuss/interview-question/4006812/string-generation-oa-
question/2045987 
 
Technical + HR Round: 
Duration: 45 minutes 
 
The interviewer greeted me and he started to read the “About me” section in my 
resume. He didn’t ask me for self-introduction. 
He was impressed by my CGPA and 12th marks and asked more about it. 
He asked about my favorite subject in school and I told Maths and Computer 
Science. He further asked what did I like in Maths. I said a variety of topics like 
matrices, linear algebra, calculus, and probability. In probability, he asked about 
the difference between permutation and combination. I explained it with an 
example and he was satisfied. 
Then he asked about my favorite subject in college. I told OOPS, Data 
Structures, Computer Networks, and Operating Systems. He then asked: 
 Why OOPS is your favorite subject? 
 Write C++ code for all 4 pillars of OOPS? 
I explained the code clearly with simple examples and he was ok with it. 
He asked about what sorting algorithms I know. 
I was always waiting for this question in an interview because I know around 9 
sorting algorithms which include: 
o Bubble sort 
o Insertion sort 
o Selection sort 
o Quick sort 
o Merge sort 
o Heap sort 
o Count sort 
o Radix sort 
o Shell sort 
I was not asked to write the code. I explained every algorithm along with its 
time and space complexity. I even explained their use cases and limitations. He 
was greatly impressed by this. It is not mandatory to learn all these algorithms 
but this was the turning point in my interview which majorly helped me. But I 
recommend you to know of all these because it makes you stand out from the 
rest of the others.Next, he asked me how strong you are in SQL. I said I am 
pretty strong in SQL. He handed me a pen and paper and asked about the ACID 
properties in DBMS. 
I explained each property in brief with an example. 
He looked at my projects and asked why I used Mongo DB since I had 
mentioned two full-stack projects in my resume which included it. 
I explained it with an example relating to my project and also told him why I 
preferred Mongo DB over MYSQL in my project. 
He further asked about the difference between SQL and NoSQL. 
He asked whether I knew about graph databases. I said I had not used it but I 
had heard about it since I came across it in my previous semester course "Big 
Data Analytics" 
The HR questions asked were: 
o What do you know about Barclays? 
o Why did you choose CEG? 
o Why did you not opt for IIT and NIT? 
o If not CEG, what are the other colleges you would have chosen? 
The interview ended with him saying “It was nice talking to you!” I was so 
happy to hear that. He asked me if I wanted to ask him any questions. Always 
ask questions to show your interest and prepare questions beforehand. I asked 
him about how they incorporate new technologies into their services. He 
answered my question and again said "It was nice talking to you “. He shook my 
hand and wished me all the best.  
 
Tips: 
 First and Foremost, you have to know the Barclays values- RISES. 
 Refer to the company website to learn more about RISES. 
 In behavioral interview questions, you have to answer in such a way that 
your answer aligns with at least one of the values. Because they evaluate 
you based on that. 
 Never lie in your resume, because in Barclays every interviewer has at 
least 10+ years of experience and they can easily catch you in a lie. 
 Be strong on what you mention in your resume. Questions will only be 
asked based on your resume. 
 When asked about your favorite subject don't tell him any subject that 
you are not so confident about. Because questions will be asked only 
based on that. 
 Read the job description beforehand. Questions will also come from that. 
If the job description includes cloud, microservices, GUI. Questions will 
also be asked from that. You don't need to know every concept they have 
mentioned in the job description, just basic knowledge is enough. 
 
Aptitude Preparation: 
 
Refer Indiabix. They have a ton of aptitude questions. Practice regularly. 
Important concepts: Problems on trains, Time and Distance, Time and Work, 
Simple and Compound Interest, Profit and Loss, Partnerships, Permutation and 
Combination, Probability, Ratios, and Percentages, Family members relations 
and ages. 
Tech MCQs- mostly Code outputs and Debugging. Predict the output for C, 
C++, and Java code snippets – based on pointer manipulation in C++, 
Inheritance-based questions, interfaces in java. 
 
DSA: 
 
Refer to Striver Sheet. It is more than enough. You should understand the 
intuition, thought process, and the time and space complexity behind every 
problem. Practice coding daily on websites like leetcode, hackerrank, coding 
ninjas and GeeksforGeeks. Participate in contests to manage your time in 
solving coding problems. Prepare standard questions like sorting algorithms, 4 
pillars of OOPS implementation, Queue to stack, and stack to queue. 
 
Core subjects: 
o DBMS 
o OOPS 
o OS 
o CN 
o System Design 
You need to be thorough with these concepts. Refer to websites like geeks for 
geeks, interview bit, PrepInsta, JavatPoint, and your semester notes. 
 
Project: 
This is the backbone of your resume. You need to know everything in and out 
of your project. Standard questions are: 
o Why did you choose this project? 
o What are the security features? 
o What are the challenges faced in the project? 
o Why did you choose this particular tech stack for this project? 
If you have hosted your project, do mention it because it makes a good 
impression on you. Update your GitHub and LinkedIn profile accordingly. 
Because the interviewer may also check your profile. You can also mention 
your coding profiles. At last mention some extracurricular activities in your 
resume because your resume should not be too technical. You should show him 
that you can balance both academic and extracurricular.   
 
 
HR and behavioral: 
 
Refer to many websites for Barclay’s behavioral questions and answers 
so you will get an idea of how to approach these questions. 
Important: RISES 
 
Most importantly, Refer to GFG archives before you appear for an 
interview 
 
Hope this helps. 
Thank you and All the Best. 
Avinash K 
avinashkathiravan@gmail.com  
Contact: 6380536587 
Linked In: https://www.linkedin.com/in/avinash-k-1a33bb200/ 
