BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 
FTE INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
ABOUT THE COMPANY: 
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, commonly known as BNY Mellon, is an American 
multinational investment banking services holding company headquartered in New York City. It is by 
far the world's largest custodian bank and asset servicing company. It provides investment 
management, investment services and wealth management helping institutions and individuals 
succeed in markets all over the world. BNY Mellon Technology Private Limited, established in 2000, is a 
group company of BNY Mellon operating in India, providing technology solutions to the bank. The 
Technology division has over 13,000 professionals, working across nine innovation centres worldwide, 
to deliver innovative technology solutions powering BNY Mellon business. 
 
      You can know more about the company at this website:       https://www.bnymellon.com/in/en.html 
 
 
Number of Rounds: 4 
 
1. Online Coding Assessment (90 mins) 
2. Technical Interview I (60 mins) 
3. Technical Interview II (45 mins) 
4. HR Interview (60 mins) 
 
Round 1: Online Coding Assessment: (90 mins) 
The online coding round consisted of 4 programming problems to be solved in 1 hour 30 mins. 
The test was conducted on Hackerrank platform. The problems were of different difficulty levels(1 easy, 
2 medium and 1 hard). The questions were as follows: 
Easy problem: (Distinct digit numbers) 
Print the numbers with unique digits in a given range (x, y) x and y inclusive. Time 
complexity was a factor to note while solving this. I solved it partially (8/12 testcases passed). I 
wasn’t able to optimize my solution and that’s why the 4 testcases got time limit exceeded. 
 
Medium problem 1: (Slot machine 2.0) 
 
I solved this completely. 
 
Medium problem 2: 
Given 3 coordinates (a, b, c) in a plane, check whether they form a triangle (It’s a 
triangle if the following conditions hold...|ab + bc| > |ac|, |ac + ab| > |bc|, |bc + ac| > |ab|). 
Check whether the points P and Q lie on the triangle formed. Return a number as per the 
below mentioned conditions: 
0 - If the points form a triangle and P, Q doesn't lie on the triangle 
1 - If only P lies on the triangle 
2 - If only Q lies on the triangle 
4 - If both P and Q lies on the triangle 
5 - If the triangle cannot be formed by (a,b,c) 
 
 
I solved this completely. 
 
 
Hard problem: (Bit profit) 
 
I was not able to solve this but I identified an edge case and returned the 
corresponding value for the same (2/15 testcases passed). 
 
Candidates who solved at least 2.5 questions were shortlisted for the next round. (22 were shortlisted 
for the next round) 
All the interview rounds were Face to Face and held at CUIC. 
  
Round 2: Technical Interview I (60 mins) 
 
The interview started with my self-introduction. And then the interviewer tested the 
knowledge of my fundamental data structures and OOPs. Concepts from arrays, linked lists, stack, 
queues and strings were asked. Then, the interviewer asked me to solve an easy level coding question 
both iteratively and recursively. Then, the interviewer asked fundamental questions from DBMS. 
Questions like, how APIs work and how Google search works were asked. The interview ended with 
questions based upon projects listed in my resume. 
 
Round 3: Technical Interview II (45 mins) 
The interview started with my self-introduction as before. The interviewer tested the 
knowledge of my fundamental data structure and OOPs. Then, the interviewer asked fundamental 
concepts from DBMS and some queries for a given table. He gave me two tables and asked me to 
write queries for the scenarios given. He asked me to explain my projects which I had put in my 
resume and also asked me some questions about the projects. He asked to explain how I normalised 
the tables of the database at each step in my project with diagrams. Couple of easy coding questions 
were asked and I solved both.  
 
 
Round 4: HR Interview (60 mins) 
 
The interview started with questions based upon my skills listed in the resume. He asked what 
skills I acquired as part of the curriculum and what I learnt at my own interest. He also asked how did I 
learnt the skills which I listed as learnt at my own interest. Following this, typical HR questions were 
asked. Some of them are: 
 What challenges you faced in past 6 months and how did you overcome them? 
 Did any conflict/misunderstanding arised between you and your teammate while doing the 
project and how it was resolved? 
 Are you praised by your surrounding people for your qualities? If so, what are those? 
 What did you learn apart from your college curriculum and what made you to learn it? 
 What do you do in your free time? 
 What do you know about BNY and why BNY? 
 
A behavioural question was asked after this. A hypothetical situation was given and he tested how 
would I react for the same. The situation is described as, I am a fresher who is part of a team comprising 
of 10-12 members. The team is so unresponsive that I wasn’t able to clear my doubts. None of them 
listens to my grievances and if some listened, no proper response was coming from them. 
After this a puzzle was asked to test my lateral thinking. The link to the puzzle is: 
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/puzzle-18-torch-and-bridge/ 
 
 
12 people were given the FTE offer. 
 
 
 
General Tips: 
 Practice regularly on any of the coding platforms. 
 Try to complete Must Do Coding questions from GFG. 
 Familiarise with data structures and algorithms. 
 Concentrate on DBMS and OS too. 
 Have 2-3 solid projects. Self-Interest projects might be more helpful than subject related 
projects. 
 
Be ready to answer any type of questions based on your resume. 
 
Explain your thoughts while solving problems in technical interviews. 
 Try to give real life incidents as an example to the questions asked in HR interviews. 
 
Do not over-familiarize yourself with standard problems. 
 
 
 
This is Barathraj T from CSE, CEG (Batch 2023). If you have any queries, you can ping 
me at https://www.linkedin.com/in/barathraj-t. 
 
