ASTRAZENECA INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
(SUMMER INTERNSHIP) 
 
About the Company: 
     AstraZeneca is a British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and 
biotechnology company headquartered in Cambridge, England. It is one of the 
world’s leading pharmaceutical companies, focusing on the research, 
development, manufacturing, and marketing of prescription medicines across a 
wide range of therapeutic areas.  AstraZeneca played a crucial role in the global 
response to COVID-19 by developing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine 
(Vaxzevria) in collaboration with the University of Oxford. 
 
Number of Rounds: 3 
1. Online Test 
2. Technical Round 
3. HR Round 
 
Online Test: 
    This round was conducted in Mettl platform for about 45 minutes. It was 
conducted in offline mode at CUIC mini auditorium.  The round consists of 5 
sections namely verbal ability, business aptitude, visual reasoning, logical 
reasoning, quantitative reasoning. Each section had a time constraint of 8-9 
minutes.  All the sections had MCQs which had to be answered compulsorily 
and free navigation was allowed only within the sections and it was prohibited 
between the sections.  
 
Verbal Aptitude:  Questions like choose the meaning, fill in the blank with 
appropriate words were asked, find the error in the sentence, reading 
comprehension and general English grammar were asked. 
Business Aptitude:  Questions were largely based on  graph interpretations(bar 
graphs, line graphs), data analysis, basic Mathematics and profit-loss. 
Visual Reasoning:  Questions were based on  identifying the  recurring patterns, 
sequences in a set of images, predicting the outcome of a folded or cut piece of 
paper. 
Logical Reasoning:  Questions like word encryption, determining the  direction 
based on given instructions were asked. 
Quantitative Reasoning:  Questions based on probability & statistics, ratios and 
percentage were asked in this section. 
 
Technical Round: 
The technical round lasted approximately for 20-30 minutes and I was 
interviewed by a panel of two members. Initially, the interviewer was keen to 
understand my reasons for choosing Computer Science and why not some other 
circuit branches.  Then they started asking questions on my projects I’ve 
mentioned in my resume.  Most of the questions asked were based on my 
resume. 
The panel asked me to explain the projects I’ve mentioned in my resume. They 
also asked about the reason behind choosing those projects. Questions based on 
the tools and tech stack used in the projects were asked like why did u choose 
this tool and tell something about this tech stack.  They also asked  me to tell 
any 3 challenges faced during my DBMS project.  
 He then gave me a scenario where I was given a dataset and then he 
asked what will I do with that data like what are all the possible ways 
to remove the missing values , what will I infer from those data.   
 He also asked some questions on Microsoft (excel – formulae, 
Power Bi), whether I am aware of Microsoft teams and what I am 
using it for. 
 He also asked me to rate myself on my proficiency in  Microsoft 
excel. 
 He then asked about the roles in various clubs and asked the most 
favourite role.  Since I said TechOps role in CTF, he then started 
asking questions based on that role and questioned about my works. 
 The panel also asked about my time management skills and how do 
I prioritize and manage academics and  roles in various clubs. 
 
Finally he asked if I have any questions.  I inquired about the company’s 
approach for the development and advancement for an employee. 
I suggest to prepare well about the things that have been mentioned on your 
resume and also if you are unsure about your answer admit it rather than giving 
incorrect answers. 
HR Round: 
 This round lasted for about 7-10 minutes. 
 The interviewer asked me to explain about my projects. 
 He then asked why I had applied for Astrazeneca. 
 Then he asked how will I manage several tasks in a day after saying that 
the day would be hectic in Astrazeneca as many tasks will be given. 
 He then asked being Computer Science student what made me to apply 
for this role  
 He also asked whether I did any internship before. 
 At last, he asked me whether I have any questions for him. I asked what 
is the level of AI usage in AstraZeneca. 
 
 
Overall, the interview process was quite easy. All you have to do is prepare 
some basic concepts. Also, you need to be strong in the topics mentioned on 
your resume and articulate them properly. 
 
 
 
 
All the very best! 
 
 
 
 
My details 
DEVAABINAYA P 
CEG CSE’26 
E-Mail: devaabinaya1510@gmail.com 
Mobile: 7010379656 
