CITI CORP 
Citigroup Inc. or Citi is an American multinational investment bank and financial services 
corporation . 
Citicorp Finance (India) Limited (CFIL) is Citigroup's flagship non-banking finance entity 
providing Commercial Vehicle Loans, Construction Equipment Loans, Loan Against Securities 
and Trade Advances. 
There are four domains for which the company usually hires .So the students get a chance to 
attend all the domains’ interview so as to test his/her ‘s ability in that particular domain . 
 
Students who had a cgpa of above 9.25 were shortlisted for the interview process for internships. 
 
Domain : Enterprise Technology Solutions (Technical Domain ) 
 
Round 1: 
 
1) Tell me about yourself . 
 
2) What are the programming languages you are familiar with ? 
 
3) Tell me about your projects . 
 
4) Given a scenario and asked to write a query .( Using JOIN ) 
 
5) OOPS concepts . 
 
6) How is a program complied ( OS ) 
 
 
Round 2: 
 
1) Given a program and asked to come up with a solution  .( Basic array program ) 
Intersection of two arrays (All cases should be handled ) 
 
2) Data structure used to get the rank’s of student . 
I asked on what situation will this function be used and explained about the different Data 
Structures .It’s Pros and cons ( Sorting , Heap  etc ) 
 
3)Working of a heap with an example ( Not programmatically ) 
 
4) Do you have any questions ? 
 
HR : 
 
1) Introduce yourself 
 
2) Strength and weakness . 
 
3) Questions from resume  ( Hobbies , About the events I participated ) 
 
4) Do you have the plan of studying further ( Higher studies ) ? (NO) 
 
5) Why Citi ? 
 
6) Questions if any ? 
Always be prepared with two or three questions to ask your interviewer . 
 
 
Topics to be covered : 
 Data Structures 
 Operating Systems  
 Database and Management Systems  
 
Be thorough in your resume ( DO NOT LIE ) 
 
Take away : 
 
Once you are offered an internship you will be asked to work for two months and based on your 
performance you will be given a Pre Placement Offer . 
 
Get your basics strong and  be confident while talking to the interviewer .Stay confident . 
 
All the best ! 
 
Name : Divya S 
E Mail : divyasaravanan0327@gmail.com 
 
 
 
