Wells Fargo EGS 
Number of Rounds: 4 
Role: Associate Engineer 
Batch: 2017-2021 (CSE) 
Mode: Online 
 
Round 1: Online Round – AMCAT Platform 
There were totally 5 sections. Each section is time restricted. I think for each MCQ, 
1 minute is allotted. If you completed the questions earlier you can skip to the next 
section but the remaining time in the previous section was not carried away. Once you 
move to the next section/question, you were not able to go back to previous one except 
coding section questions which is on the last section. 
1. General Aptitude 
2. Technical aptitude 
3. Verbal and comprehension  
4. Business Analytics 
5. Coding question 
General Aptitude: 
 
General aptitude MCQs (refer Indiabix site). It covers topics like profit and loss, 
time and work, find the next number in the series, finding pattern using alphabets, 
logical questions, etc.., 
Technical aptitude: 
 
Technical MCQ questions from various domain of computer science like dbms, 
OS, Computer organization, debugging and some simple coding questions. 
Verbal and Comprehension: 
 
It consist of English verbal MCQ like selecting the appropriate word for the 
sentence, synonyms, ordering of sentence and questions based on English 
comprehension. 
 
Business Analytics: 
It’s something similar to English comprehension but instead of giving a 
passage, a graph and chart (Stocks, gain & loss,…) was given. The questions were 
asked in such a way to interpret from the given picture for answers. 
Coding question: 
 
Two coding questions were asked. One based on max heap and one on DP. 
Though the first question was bit easy, one given test case was wrong. So, the 
question was not passing all the given test cases, not sure about the hidden cases. 
The Second question is bit tough for me. I tried, but only one given test case was 
passed. 
1. Given an N mikes and M group of singers and an array consist of 
number of singers in each group. We have to distribute the mikes 
such that maximum group should be divide into two. Return the 
number of singers in the maximum group.  
2. Graph-DP based questions 
I hadn’t done the coding part well as I had not completed any one of the coding 
questions fully. I had a satisfaction of business analytics section.  
Round 2: Face-to-Face Technical Round – Zoom meetings – 1 Hour 
 
It’s really a fun part. I hadn’t checked my mail in the morning. I called my friend 
who done both the coding questions well with all test cases passed on one question 
and another one with one case failed. He told me sadly that he was not shortlisted for 
next round. So, I thought how can I shortlist if he itself didn’t. For this company, we 
were not supposed to receive the shortlists through our placement group (WhatsApp) 
because they sent the mail personally to all the shortlisted candidates. I was watching 
film by having a call with my friend. Around 10.40 am, I got a call from an unknown 
number. As I activated a call waiting option and my data was turned on, there shows 
Wells Fargo with HR name because of one call identifier application, I was bit shocked 
and thought why they called me. Then I switch on to the call. He asked to join in the 
meeting as the business was waiting. I asked what meeting. He said that I got 
shortlisted for next round of interview and interview got scheduled at 10:30 am. What 
an embarrassing moment it was, I apologized him as I didn’t notice the meet invite. 
Then he gave me meet ID and password. He asked me to join the meet immediately. 
I suddenly wore formals and joined the meet. It was around 10.45 am. I joined the 
meet, unfortunately there was no business in the meeting. Then I called HR again and 
he assigned an interviewer. I apologized him for joining late and the interview get 
started. 
 “Tell me about Yourself” 
 Asked about the projects in my resume 
 Asked in detail regarding my compiler project, as I mentioned in resume. 
(Code optimizer project - Lex & Yacc - explanation and working) 
 Asked me to write a code for words recommendation (say for example, If 
we type ‘Go’, it had to recommend Gokul, Gopal, Govind,…) 
 Asked 3 logical puzzles - water boat to cross bridge question, color ball in a 
bucket, min distance using umbrella in rain. 
I felt very bad for not joining the meet on time as it would create the bad first 
impression. Kindly read the Take away for the reason of telling this story. 
Round 3: Face-to-Face Second Round – Zoom meetings – 1 Hour 
 
HR called me for the next round. For this time I joined on time. But unfortunately 
my Interviewer haven’t joined on time. I waited for 10 minutes. Then I called HR and 
informed him. Then later, my interviewer joined and he apologized me for joining late. 
What a great culture, and that time I felt ‘Karma is a boomerang’ as I was waited lol. 
The interview began, 
 “Tell me about yourself” 
 He asked me the favorite subject of mine – I answered DSA 
 Data structures used in elevator – I told that that depends on the purpose of 
the lift. Then based on his constrains, I suggested priority queue 
 Data structures used in ATM Dispenser – I said again the priority queue and 
explained why I chose that one. 
 String based questions. Given the two strings, we have to print the strings 
in the ‘+’ format, one on vertical and one on horizontal with center as first 
matching character. I had an O(n^2) approach. While explaining that one, I 
got with an another approach of O(n). He was not convinced with my O(n) 
approach. I strongly supported my approach. He asked me to convince him 
though how much time it took. Then I convinced him at last with some 
pictorial representations. He got impressed and he told so. 
 Data structures used in google maps - based questions 
 Gave one application, I won’t remember and asked what algorithm we could 
use for that. 
The interview got over and he told me that he would pass me on to next level 
of the process and suggested few tips for the next round ie., HR round. What a great 
person he is. 
Round 4: Face-to-Face HR Round – Zoom meetings – 30 min 
 “How was your day” 
 How was the online round, any difficulties I had faced? 
 About my family and background 
 “Any Questions for me?” – use this opportunity to show the HR that you 
have done some research on company and you are interested to join in it. 
 She signed off with an indirect positive message. 
Topics to be focused: 
 Data Structures - mainly focus on arrays, strings, heap, graph, trees, dp 
 Operating Systems, DBMS 
 Technical Areas of interest mentioned in your resumes. 
 Any one programming language (C++ or Java preferable) 
Take Away: 
 After the completion of coding round, check your mail and WhatsApp group. 
Though your friends got selected, give them your greetings. 
 Attend the interviews without any preconditions though you are late, not 
answered the previous questions or whatever. Answer the questions 
confidently and pitch your ideas/approach if you feel it is correct. If interviewer 
says any better approach, accept it and move on to next one. 
 Be punctual to the interviews. 
 Be clear on what you mentioned in your resumes. 
 Speak confidently with some good gestures and expressions. 
 Mostly interviewers are friendly and they will help you to arrive a solution. Just 
keep on trying. They will focus more on your approach than the solution. 
 For general questions, don’t let the answers be too short or too long. 
General suggestions: 
 Build your resume of only one page – may use 2 columnar – companies expect 
1 page resume from beginners – It’s up to your choice either to choose your 
unique template or predefined one but one page is preferred. 
 Go through the applied company and its Job Description (JD) and I personally 
suggest you to modify your resumes by adding or removing your skills/projects 
according to the company’s JD. 
 “Tell me about yourself” should cover a bit about your family, academics, and 
try to demonstrate your technical (internship or project experience) and 
management skills (positions held, any responsibilities etc.,) and an 
achievement/proud moment (if any). Don’t make it too short/long. Suggest to 
cover around 2 to 4 minutes. 
 In some companies, interviewer may ask your favourite projects or topics. Tell 
them the one, you are more confident off and explain them why that one? 
 Once you know that you got shortlisted, have a good sleep the previous day 
and be brisk on interview. 
 Attend the interview freely. Don’t be nervous and stressful. Though it’s easy to 
suggest you, I know how hard it is. Do some home works for the interviews like 
practice yourself in front of mirror, asking your seniors/friends to conduct some 
mock interviews,... If you well prepared your first question, “Tell me about 
yourself” then you will gain some confidence.  
 For the soft skills mentioned in your resume – be ready with a situations where 
it helped you a lot (your story). 
 Though you have prepared answers for some questions, don’t let the 
interviewer know it is prepared. Go with the natural flow. You will make it 
through practice. 
 While doing coding questions, try to complete a question fully and then move 
on to next one. You have to choose the question in that manner.  
 “Consistent is the key to success”, a well-known quote. If you haven’t selected 
or move to further rounds in interviews – learn from it and practice consistently 
and try to avoid those mistakes in upcoming one. 
 I suggest you to prepare along with your friends of same mindset to keep you 
motivated and discuss with them regarding the questions and experiences and 
I strongly suggest you to connect with any known seniors, so that you can get 
some clear picture. 
 You must develop yourself to face rejections.  
 “Hard work never fails”, of course hard work never fails until you work hard 
whenever it fails. 
 Last but not least, “Friends” – What a beautiful relationship. If you got an offer 
from any companies, try helping your friends and take care of them. 
 
ALL THE VERY BEST! 
WISH YOU ALL SUCCESS!! 
 
Contact: 
Name: Gokul K 
Mail id: kgokulceg@gmail.com 
Linked in: linkedin.com/in/gokulk03  
