MICROSOFT INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
Microsoft Corporation is an American multinational corporation and technology company 
headquartered in Redmond, Washington.[2] Its best-known software products are the Windows 
line of operating systems, the Microsoft 365 suite of productivity applications, the Azure cloud 
computing platform and the Edge web browser. Its flagship hardware products are the Xbox 
video game consoles and the Microsoft Surface lineup of touchscreen personal computers. 
 
Role Offered: Software Engineer 
Stipend:  1,25,000 INR per month 
Sequence of Selection: Online Test, Technical Interview 1, Technical Interview 2 
(Completely Virtual) 
  
Online Test: 
It consisted of two problems. 
 
 
First Problem:  
Given two very long numbers in a linked list, how many swaps do you need to make the 
absolute difference between the number’s minimum. 
You can only swap corresponding indices. That is A[i1] can only be swapped with B[i2]. 
 
Example Test Case:  
 
A = “9 8 6 5” 
 
B = “2 3 4 5” 
 
 
Output: 1; 
Explanation: We can swap 8 with 3 and 6 with 4 and the answer would be 2 swaps with a 
minimum value of 6480 (9345-2865). But this is not the minimum. The minimum is swap is 
1 because 9345-2865 is also 6480. 
 
Second Problem: 
Given a string of directions consisting of “N” (North), “E” (East) and “W” (West). Find the 
shortest path from the end point to the initial point by using only “E”, “S”, and “W”. The 
extra note given was to that the first and last move will be North for all testcases. 
Example Testcase:  
 
S = “NENWN” 
This would look like, (The black stroke) 
 
 
End point: 
 
     
 
 
 
 
Start point: 
The output would be, 
 
Output: “WSSSE” (The red stroke) 
 
My Experience: 
The text editor was like, we can run testcases and custom inputs. But after submission we 
cannot modify the submitted solution. So, I did submit after thinking of a solution. It was a 
greedy approach. I think personally think the right answer would be in dp. For the second 
question I was able to come up with a right solution. We can also use bfs also. I did an 
iterative solution directly. 
 
The result was declared after one hour. Only 5 candidates were chosen out of the whole 
college. 
Technical Interview 1: 
This was 36 hours later. 
9:30 am 
First, I had to install teams in my system to attend the interview. 
Then for the whole interview, I had to keep my camera ‘on’ and also share my screen. He 
also gave a common link for us both to code at the same time. 
Then the first question the interviewer asked me was that if I was familiar with linked lists. I 
answered Yes. 
He asked me the question, that I have to delete any nodes that has than more than one 
occurrence. The given list was also sorted. So, for example, if the given list was 1->2->2->3, 
the result should be 1->3. The deletion should be in-place. So, the head should be returned.  
I was able to talk to him and also come up with a working solution. 
 
Then we moved on to the next question. The question was to print all the prime numbers until 
500. I used Sieve of Eratosthenes algorithm to come up with an efficient solution.  
Takeaway:  
In my opinion, the questions were easy. The critical factor in the interview was the way you 
solve it. 
Your approach only matters. If you can talk and do the solution parallelly, it shows the 
interviewer your thinking process. So, be sure to talk during the interview. 
Technical Interview 2: 
3 hours later (Same day) 
The same initial setup with sharing my screen with my camera. 
The interviewer first asked me not to be nervous and asked me to explain my thought at each 
step. Then the question asked to me was https://leetcode.com/problems/restore-ip-
addresses/description/ . I never solved this question at leetcode but I was able to come up 
with a solution during the interview. I coded the entire solution in notepad. 
The interview lasted for an hour.  
Takeaway: 
As I said talking out your solution is what matters the most. The solution I came up with was 
not very efficient at all but I still explain my though process. 
Conclusion: 
After 2.5 hours (Same day)  
I got the message that I was selected for their internship. (Completely over the moon).  
Always try to explain your thoughts. The interviewer helps you to come to the right solution. 
Don’t panic, stay calm and try to code your answer.  
 
All the very best. 
Hariharan Alexander, 
CEG CSE’26 
E-Mail: hariharanvirum@gmail.com 
Mobile: +91 7708462392 
