VERIZON 
Verizon is the #1 wireless provider in the U.S. and a global leader in next generation 
communications technology, including 5G and the Internet of Things. It is the 8th best 
workplace as ranked by LinkedIn in 2024 (9) LinkedIn . 
 
The interview consisted of three rounds. 
1. Online Assessment: 
Online assessment was conducted on Online Assessments - Aon (cocubes.com). 
 
i. Write an essay on “Wealth is not the same as happiness” (190-240 words) 
 
ii. Coding Assessment (2 questions): 
 
 
1. You are given two numbers N and K. Your task is to find the total number of weird 
numbers in the range 1 to N. A number is weird if that number is not divisible by K but the 
sum of digits of that number is divisible by K. 
2. You are provided with a two-dimensional integer array of size m x n of integers as 
input. Print the 2-D array after sorting each row of the array in ascending order. 
 
iii. Language Proficiency: 
 
Multiple assessments to check our language proficiency like spelling check, grammar 
knowledge and so on. It will be like rapid fire. When you answer one question next will show 
up until the time runs out. So try to attempt many questions as possible. 
 
There were negative points for wrong answers and you can also prefer not to answer 
(no negative marks). So choose wisely. 
 
iv. Puzzle: 
 
I was asked to solve puzzles(medium level). And it was the same as previous round 
(rapid fire). Try to answer correctly. 
After online assessment 48 students were shortlisted for Group discussion. 
 
2. Group Discussion: 
GD was conducted offline, with 12 in one panel(20 mins). The topic was GenAI’s effect on 
creativity. 
 
• Try to give valid point. Quantity is not important quality is what they expect. 
• Don’t take so much time for a single point. 
24 people were shortlisted for next technical round. 
 
3. Technical Round: 
It was a 30 min round. They asked questions only from the resume and my favourite 
subjects. 
• Some basics questions from DSA, DBMS, OS, ML(project) 
• They asked every information you have provided on the resume. 
• They asked all about my project and how much I know about my project. 
 
The Interviewer asked me if I had any questions. 
 
Even if you forgot some points be brisk and try to answer the question from what 
you know. 
16 people were shortlisted for HR round. 
 
4. HR round: 
They just asked about my family background and my hometown. 
The HR asked me if I had any questions for him. 
It’s very normal and no technical questions were asked. 
They sent the offer mail within 10 minutes and a brief info about the company was given. 
 
Make sure you are strong in fields you have used in the resume. 
 
 
Everyone can get placed, Never lose hope. 
 
Hope this helps. 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Name – Harish Kummar K G S 
Mail id – harishkummar3210@gmail.com 
Mobile number - 8667079932 
