                    NATWEST INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
                    (INTERN AND PLACEMENT DRIVE) 
 
ABOUT THE COMPANY 
 NatWest Group is a major British banking and financial services holding company 
headquartered in Edinburgh, Scotland. It operates through well-known subsidiaries including 
NatWest, National Westminster Bank, Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), Ulster Bank, NatWest 
Markets, and Coutts, serving both retail and private banking, investment, and commercial 
sectors.  
 Incorporated in 1968, initially as the holding entity merging National Commercial Bank of 
Scotland and others, the group has gone through expansions, a prominent international 
period, a serious financial crisis, and extensive restructuring.  
 In 2020, the group rebranded from RBS Group to NatWest Group to align with its primary 
customer-facing brand. 
 
PROCEDURE: 
1.ONLINE TEST(@CUIC) 
2.INTERVIEW(TECHNICAL+HR) (@CUIC) 
 
ONLINE TEST 
The Online test consisted of four sections and was conducted on SHL platform at CUIC. It is a 
proctored test where you need to keep your webcam on. The total duration was 1hr 51 
minutes which was around 2hrs. 
 
SECTION 1(CODING SECTION) 
This section consisted of 2 coding questions which were easy to medium difficulty level 
timed for 45 minutes. 
Question 1: 
This question was similar to finding number of non-repeating characters in a string. 
I used an unordered map to solve this problem. 
Question 2: 
This question was described to sort in ascending order till k and after k ,we should sort it in 
descending order and finally merge and print the result. 
I used inbuilt functions like sort()  and reverse() to solve this problem as they did not 
mention about restricting the use of inbuilt functions. 
All test cases passed in both the questions. 
 
SECTION 2 (SQL) 
This section consisted around 13-15 MCQ questions regarding SQL which included queries, 
SQL keywords and finding correct queries and so on. This section was timed for 15 minutes. 
You can score full marks in this section as this only tested the basic knowledge in SQL. 
 
SECTION 3 (APTITUDE) 
This section actually took a lot of time to solve as there were 24 questions timed for 36 
minutes. 
The questions were from : 
1.Numerical Reasoning(Graphs,percentages,profit,sales) 
2.Logical Reasoning(Ranking,Ordering,Scheduling) 
3.Abstract/Inductive Reasoning(Figure patterns,alphanumeric sequence) 
They come under Cognitive Ability test and section had more weightage ,so try to solve as 
many questions and there is no negative marking. 
 
TIPS: 
1.Read questions carefully because for five questions same question can be repeated. 
2.Be fast in doing calculation when dealing with stock,profit,percentage related questions. 
3.Learn shortcuts for pattern solving,percentages,etc… 
4.Solve many questions from this section because it can boost your total marks in the overall 
assessment. 
 
SECTION 4(ENGLISH AND COMPREHENSION) 
 
This section consisted of nearly 10-12 questions of MCQ type and  can be solved easily with 
basic English grammar knowledge.You can score full marks in this section too.This section 
was timed for 15 minutes. 
The questions were like to choose appropriate words,synonyms,antonyms and error 
spotting. 
They gave a comprehension and asked 2-3 questions from that. 
You can choose any section to work on and there is no restriction between navigating 
questions and also you will have sufficient time to choose next section after you have 
completed one section as the timer will stop and then starts once you enter the next section  
and choose accordingly. 
 
23 candidates including me were shortlisted for the next interview round. 
 
INTERVIEW (TECHNICAL + HR) 
 
We had only one round of interview which consisted of two interviewers per panel.There 
were 5 panels and they started interviewing the final year grads first for placement and the 
interview for interns was commenced around 2.00 P.M. 
I went to panel 1 as the last person to be interviewed by the interviewers and went around 
30-40 minutes. 
 
There were a sir for HR questions and a mam for Technical questions and They started with 
my resume and asked about : 
1.My schooling 
2.My area of interest(I mentioned Agile,NatWest Technologies,etc..) 
3.Why did I learnt Japanese? 
4.My projects (Which one I found Interesting) 
5.Did I visit IIT library? 
6.What did you find interesting in this campus? 
 
And he switched me over to mam for technical questions ,she was keenly listening my 
answers and started asking from that. 
1.Tech stacks used in my project and why chose them? 
2.How SQL table is integrated to my projects? 
3.OOPS concepts(Abstract class,interface,constructors,static class,static methods and so on) 
4.Difference between Java and Python. 
5.SQL queries,SQL keywords,SQL functions(like aggregate 
functions,DENSE_OVER(),ROW_COUNT()) 
6.Difference between WHERE and HAVING clause in SQL. 
 
She asked me to write the query on paper and explain actually I made a silly mistake and she 
gave a hint to correct myself. 
She was very friendly and they didn’t expect a perfect answer, they just want to know how 
well you manage and how well you are in the known concepts. 
Feel free to tell your interviewer that you are not comfortable in the particular topic and let 
them know how much you know about the topic. Don’t lie to your interviewer and be 
honest and tell them what you know instead. 
 
Then again HR questions were shooted : 
1.Why NatWest? 
2.What you expect when you join? 
3.Any questions to the interviewer? 
Ask some questions when you are prompted to ask so that they know that you are actually 
interested in the company and communication is the key factor. They asked line by line 
questions from my Resume so be thorough with your Resume. 
 
QUICK TIPS THAT ACTUALLY HELP: 
1.Learn DSA,DBMS,OOPS,OS,CN and revise those before your interview 
SOURCE: Refer GEEKSFORGEEKS for last minute prep. 
2.Be confident and honest with your interviewer. 
3.Admit that you are not comfortable in a particular topic and tell them instead you know 
some other related concept. 
4.Surf through GEEKSFORGEEKS previous year experience which actually helped me a lot. 
5.Practice coding in Leetcode and hackerrank to improve problem solving skills. 
6.Learn about company and make an impression that you are actually interested in the 
company. 
7.Prepare Aptitude from IndiaBix. 
RESOURCE: 
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1DOlcBKs8emhVHDKnnIAolVpPq5oIS-SF 
 
Actually the result was like “EXPECT THE UNEXPECTED” because I told them frankly that I am 
not comfortable with some topics but somehow I managed to tell some basic points I know . 
9 Interns were selected including me.(The Happiest Part) 
 
JUST GO WITH THE FLOW, EVERYTHING WILL BE ALIGNED AND HAPPEN IN THE RIGHT TIME. 
KEEP PRACTICING , GIVE YOUR BEST AND DON’T WORRY ABOUT THE REST. 
MAKE IT HAPPEN!!! 
                                                    ALL THE BEST !!! 
 
FEEL FREE TO CONTACT ME IN CASE IF YOU HAVE ANY QUERIES. 
HARSIKA VETRIVEL(B.E CSE 2023-2027) 
CONTACT NO: 8072619155 
LINKEDIN : https://www.linkedin.com/in/harsikavetrivel88 
EMAIL ID : harsikavetri@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
