WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 
 
Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational financial services company. It is a 
provider of banking, mortgage, investing, credit card, and personal, small business, and 
commercial financial services. The interviews in our college were for the SDE roles. Wells 
Fargo has its offices in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai in India. 
 
Round 1: Online Test 
The online test was hosted on the AMCAT platform. It consisted of 3 sections. 
 English and Verbal: It had some comprehension and vocabulary-based questions. 
 Data Analysis: Questions were based on interpretation of charts and graphs.  
 Coding: Two coding questions were asked. They were of medium-hard difficulty.  
Round 2: Technical Round -1 (60 mins) 
This was a face-to-face interview round.  
I was asked to introduce myself and tell a bit about my projects. The interviewer then started 
asking questions about the android app I had developed.  
 What are the security features built into the app? 
 SQL Injection and DDoS attack prevention methods 
 How to handle heavy loads in servers? 
 Do you know about microservices? 
 Questions related to load balancer. 
After these questions, I was given two coding questions. 
 A manager-employee scenario and I was asked to use OOPs concepts to design the 
classes. 
 Given an array of numbers choose the 3 numbers that give the maximum sum. 
The coding was done on a normal text editor and I could use any language of my choice. 
The interviewer then asked if I had any questions for him. 
Round 3: Technical Round -2 (30 mins) 
This was also a face-to-face interview round. 
I was asked to introduce myself. The interviewer started with my projects and internship and 
then asked about some general system design questions. 
 Explain about the intern project. 
 How does a CNN work? (I had worked on Image Processing projects and had listed 
them on my resume) 
 Design a database management system. How do you increase the speed of fetching 
the records? How do you make it fault tolerant? (There weren’t any constraints for 
designing the system.) 
 Design a processor that can detect if a code has been modified after compilation.  
He then asked if I was open to working anywhere and, in the end, asked if I had any 
questions for him. 
Round 4: HR Round (20 mins) 
This was also a face-to-face interview round. 
I was asked to introduce myself and was also asked about my family and background. The 
interviewer then asked if I had any questions for her regarding the company and the job. Then 
she asked why I will not be pursuing Masters and why I am choosing Wells Fargo. 
Topics to be focussed 
Good knowledge about Data Structures and Algorithms, analytical thinking and problem-
solving skills. An in-depth understanding about the projects listed on the resume and related 
concepts.  
Takeaway 
The interviews were smooth and interviewers were really supportive. I had a good knowledge 
about all the projects that I had listed on my resume and the related concepts and this helped 
me a lot. It was also important to communicate my ideas clearly to the interviewer as this 
helped me in the technical rounds when I didn’t know the exact answers. 
 
Name: Ishwarya S 
Email: ish23.siva@gmail.com 
 
