 
 
 
 
 
WELLS FARGO 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational financial services company. Wells 
Fargo delineates three different business segments when reporting results: Community Banking; 
Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. 
 
Round 1: Online Test 
The online test was hosted on the AMCAT platform. 
The test had 3 sections:  
 Verbal English  
 Business Aptitude – Questions based on our interpretation on the given graphs and statistics. 
 Coding – Two coding questions. 
 
Round 2: Technical Round 
I was asked to introduce myself. 
The interviewer asked to explain about one of my projects in the resume.  
Then I was asked questions about Machine Learning. 
1. What is unsupervised learning? 
2. Examples of unsupervised learning 
3. Explain about Support Vector Machine 
4. How to deal with unbalanced dataset? 
5. An ML problem was given and I was asked how I should approach it. 
 
Later, three coding questions were given and my approach to the each of the problem was asked. 
1. https://leetcode.com/problems/min-stack/ 
2. https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-level-order-traversal/ 
3. https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-zigzag-level-order-traversal/ 
 
 
Then I got selected for the next technical round. 
 
Round 3: Technical Round  
I was asked to tell about myself 
I was asked what data structure should be used for the elevator system. Then the question was 
improvised and the data structure that can be used for handling multiple such elevators was asked. 
My answer was priority queue and I explained how it can be used. 
 
Then interviewer asked why Wells Fargo – a fintech company, as my internship was in a product 
based company. He talked about himself and his experience in the company.  
 
I was asked about my plans for higher studies. I said I prefer to work than higher studies. 
He then asked if I have any questions for him.  
Then I was selected for the next round. 
 
HR: 
 
The HR round was very casual as compared to other rounds.  
 I was asked about my family and extra-curricular activities. 
 She asked few instances that prove the soft skills I had mentioned. 
 She also asked if I have preferences for work location. 
 I was asked which company I would choose if I was given an offer from Wells Fargo and a 
pre-placement offer from the company I interned with valid reasons. 
 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
 
 Data structures 
 Database management systems 
 Operating system 
 
 
Take away: 
 
 
We should be able to talk about everything on the resume – from the skills to the projects 
that are mentioned and to be able to give an approach to the coding problems asked. Confident and 
honest answers are expected by the interviewers.   
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Ishwarya R 
(rjishu08@gmail.com) 
