SAP LABS 
 
SAP India is the fastest growing subsidiary of SAP SE, the world's leading 
provider of business software solutions. It develops enterprise software to 
manage business operation and customer relations. The company is the 
world's leading enterprise resource planning (ERP) software vendor. 
 
Round 1 : Online Coding round (40 minutes) 
 
Everyone got different questions. I got two easy questions on arrays and 
strings (string manipulation and array sorting). 
 
Round 2 : Technical interview 1(30 minutes) 
 
32 members were shortlisted for interview. 
 
Questions asked : (paper and pen round) 
 
1. Palindrome 
 
2.frequency of numbers 
 
3.circular linked list 
 
4.finding  specific multiples in range of numbers 
 
5.basic questions from OOPS . 
 
6.Real life applications of polymorphism and similar questions. 
 
Overall it was mainly focused on data structures and algorithms. 
 
Round 3: Technical interview  2 (30 minutes) 
 
1. DSA question on arrays (using map – similar to frequency) 
 
2. Another DSA question on strings. 
 
3.Questions on binary search tree and graphs. 
 
Then Java questions were asked such as garbage collection ,threads 
,exception handling,.. 
Many questions from java were asked . So be prepared with java basic 
concepts. 
Some questions from projects were also asked. 
 
 
Round 4 – techno managerial round (40 minutes) 
 
I was asked to explain my project in detail and the technologies used. 
In depth technical questions from project were also asked. Be prepared with 
your projects. 
One aptitude question was asked (ratio question).  
Some java questions.  
Then, one of the panel member asked one programming question on string 
manipulation was asked. It was a hard problem. I just said the brute force 
approach . He was quite satisfied with it. Even though you can’t come up 
with a solution, just say a brute force approach. 
 
other questions : 
 
1.planning to do higher studies? 
 
2.willing to relocate? 
 
3.What is your weakness and how you overcame ? 
 
Round 5 – HR interview (20 minutes) 
1.Family background 
 
2.Where do you see yourself in next five years ? 
 
3.why SAP ? 
 
4.About relocation. 
 
5.willing to learn new technology ? 
Finally,4 members got offer. 
 
Topics to be focus:  
1. Data structures 
2. Aptitude 
3. Basic Concepts like OOPS, DBMS, etc.  
Tips : 
 
1. Be confident and have a positive mindset. 
2. Keep the interviewer engaging.How you approach a problem is more 
important than solution. 
 
All the best  !!!!!                                      Jayapriya S - jayapriyas2004@gmail.com 
