CITICORP SERVICES INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED 
 
CitiCorp Services India Private Limited deals with financial services. It provides 
investment and commercial banking services like consumer loans, trade advance etc. 
 
Round 1: Online Assessment 
 
This round consisted of MCQs and 2 coding questions. The MCQs included aptitude, 
logical, mathematical and verbal questions each in different sections. Time 
management is crucial while solving this MCQ’s as each section has a seperate timer. 
All these questions where ranging from easy to medium level. The coding questions 
are in easy and medium level mostly. Practice in Leetcode and Geeks for geeks 
website for coding. 
 
Round 2: Technical , Managerial and HR Interview 
 
The technical round is for about 25-30 minutes. The questions were as follows. 
1. 
Tell me about yourself 
2. 
Question on array. 
3. 
Questions on projects mentioned in the resume. 
4. 
Asked to tell an idea which I would like to implement in Citicorp  
5. 
If your manager refuses to listen to your ideas,will you quit the job or will you 
 
try any other alternatives? 
6. 
What do you consider important, Listening or Speaking? 
7. 
What is your short term and long term goals?. 
8. 
Suppose after joining Citicorp, if you are getting a lucrative offer from  
 
Google, what will you do? 
9. 
Any questions regarding the company 
 
Be bold in answering these questions and don’t be in a hurry to answer the questions, 
think properly before telling your answers. 
 
 
 
 
 
Round 3: HR Interview 
 
This round is for about 5-10 minutes. The following questions were asked. 
1. 
Tell me about yourself ? 
2. 
Why Citicorp? 
 
For the last question, do some background research on the company if you are about 
to ask questions on the company’s culture and stuff. Other questions can be about the 
learning process or you can pick up topics from the company’s presentation. 
 
Topics to be focused: 
 Data Structures and Algorithms 
 Prepare answers for common HR questions and ‘about yourself’ question prior. 
 
 
Take Away: 
Be bold and though if you are not able to answer a question properly do not worry too 
much about it and let it affect your interview. Try to keep a calm head throught and 
respond in a positive manner. 
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Kailash JP 
Kailashjp977@gmail.com 
 
 
 
