SAP Labs - Interview experience
Batch: 2020-24
Selection for: 3rd year Summer Internship
About the company
	
SAP Labs is a German multinational company that provides business solutions 
for the customers. It is the world’s leading Enterprise Resourcing Planning (ERP) 
organisation. It additionally focus on selling database software and technology, 
cloud engineered systems and many more ERP based products.
Selection process
	
Around 15 students were shortlisted directly for the interview rounds based 
on their resumes. All the rounds were online and conducted on Microsoft Teams.
Interview - Technical Round 1 (45 min) (15 students)
	
1)  Introduction and projects 
❖I was first asked to introduce myself and to explain my projects. I 
explained both my ADP and DBMS projects. 
❖Why have you preferred using the respective tech stack in your projects? I 
had to explain my reasons for using mySQL, React, JavaScript and so on.
	
2)  DBMS and Coding
❖A simple SQL insert query based on my project itself. I was asked to 
present my screen and type out the query. 
❖Coding question - Find the second largest element in an array. I had to type 
the pseudocode version and explain the logic.
❖What is meant by relational database?
	

	
3)  Object-Oriented Programming
❖What are the pillars of OOPs?	

❖What is meant by inheritance?
Interview - Technical Round 2 (35 min) (around 12 to 13 students)
	
1)  Introduction and projects
❖I was asked to introduce myself and explain any one project. Following 
this, I was asked lot more questions pertaining to the tech stack such as 
MySQL version, compatibility of my project with other database programs 
etc,
	
2)  Technical knowledge
❖I was asked what I knew about cloud computing. I was only aware of the 
basic idea of what it was, so I told the interviewer about that. 
❖Following this, I was asked questions on Computer Networks, such as - 
• What is meant by a network?
• How is data even sent across a network? (Transport protocols)
• What are the different Transport protocols? (TCP/UDP and I 
explained a bit about them)
• How is a message actually sent across the network ? (In the form of 
bytes of data)
❖I was asked generally what I knew about Machine Learning, AI and Data 
Science.
	
3)  About the company
	
	
	
I was then asked what I knew about SAP Labs. I spoke about 	 	
	
what I knew about the company. I was then asked if I had questions, and I 	 	
	
asked him a few questions about the programming languages that the 	
	
	
company makes use of.
Interview - HR round (15 min) (8 to 9 students)
	
I was asked to introduce myself, and I was asked a few HR-related questions 
such as - What is your greatest achievement till date? And so on. 
Finally, 7 students were selected. 
Resources for preparation 
❖Data Structures and Algorithms - 
• https://leetcode.com/discuss/general-discussion/665604/
Important-and-Useful-links-from-all-over-the-LeetCode
• YouTube channels such as Striver, NeetCode.
❖Database Management Systems - GFG
❖Object-Oriented Programming - https://prepinsta.com/c-plus-plus/ 
❖Operating Systems - https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/last-minute-notes-
operating-systems/
❖Computer Networks - foundational knowledge for this would be enough. I 
did not prepare for network-based questions, so I was able to answer from 
what was taught in our CN course in semester 5. 
❖GFG company-based archives - VERY important. 
Key takeaways
❖Code regularly on platforms like Leetcode and HackerRank. 
❖Participate in coding contests if possible, such as the ACM intern 
preparation contests. This will help you learn to code under time pressure, 
which is what actually matters in the selection process.
❖The interviewer may sometimes ask for the brute-forced approach as well, 
so be prepared.
❖Know your projects very well, especially the goal behind your application 
and the reasons as to why you chose a specific tech stack for 
implementation.
❖Generally while preparing for the interview process, focus on projects, read 
well about the company and prepare good questions to ask the interviewer. 
These are the areas that if prepares well for, will surely go well in the 
interview.
❖Even if you feel that the interview is not going as well as expected, keep 
calm, maintain your focus on the interview itself and do not worry about 
your performance or the outcome of the interview. 
All the best!
Lakshana Ravishankar
B.E. CSE (CEG ’24)
Feel free to connect - 
❖lakshravi23@gmail.com
❖https://www.linkedin.com/in/lakshrav/
