ARUNA M – Computer Science And Engineering  
             
Intern at Fidelity Investments 
About the Company: 
Fidelity is one of the leading financial investment companies in the U.S., 
known for promoting a perfect work-life balance. It fosters an 
environment where there's ample opportunity to learn and explore, with 
innovation and curiosity being key drivers for success. 
Overview of the Process: 
     The overall process consisted of: 
 An Online coding contest. 
 Interview Round 1 (Technical) – at CUIC 
 Interview Round 2 (HR) – at CUIC 
 
Coding Test: (Hirepro Platform)  
This round had four sections. 
 
 Section 1: Multiple-choice questions on English. 
 
 Section 2: Multiple-choice technical questions covering topics such as 
Computer Networks, Operating Systems, OOP, C++, and Data Structures 
& Algorithms (DSA), Database Management Systems. 
 
 Section 3: Coding questions: There were two problems, one of medium 
difficulty and another of a hard level, focused on Arrays and Strings.  
1. Write a program to read a string of uppercase letters and transform 
it by shifting even-indexed characters one step backward and odd-
indexed characters two steps forward in the alphabet (with 
wraparound). 
2.  program to read two integers, find the sum of digits of each, and 
print the product of those sums. 
 
 Section 4: Algorithm: We were asked to write algorithm for two 
problems. The time for this section was more limited compared to the 
others. (10 minutes) 
                  1. Infix to prefix. 
                  2. Generate combinations. 
 
 
75 students were shortlisted for the next round 
 
Interview Round 1 –Technical (60 minutes): 
 
 Group Anagram, Reverse Each Word (leetcode problem) 
 Multiprocessing vs Multithreading – difference. 
 Is multiple inheritance possible in Java? Explain the diamond problem.. 
 Explain method overloading vs overriding. 
 When variables and pointers are declared, where are they stored in 
memory, how many bytes does a pointer take, and where does it point to? 
 Garbage Collector – how it works and how to minimize its impact. 
    25 students were selected. 
 
Interview Round 2–HR (45 minutes): 
 
 Some discussion company service and culture. 
 Some discussion about my project. 
 What is  spring boot . 
 Discussion on previous attended coding competition. 
 Some general family related questions. 
 Struggle faced on first semester and how I overcomed. 
And more. 
12 students were selected. 
 
Preparation Strategy: 
 
 Competitive programming: 
     I used materials of  strivers topic wise playlists. 
     I used to watch destination faang  youtube channel videos 
 
 DBMS, OS, OOP: 
    These are covered in the curriculum. For revision I used ‘Last minute 
notes’ of Geeks for Geeks. 
 
 
Tips from my side: 
 
 Get to know the optimised solution even after all the test cases passes. 
 Be strong in the fundamentals of OS, DBMS, OOP,DSA. 
 Good to have projects relevant to the company in your resume. 
 Read the previous interview experiences of the company from Geeks for 
Geeks interview archives. 
 If your interests align with the company’s work, make sure to include it in 
the conversation to increase the chances of getting selected. 
 Research about the company before going to the interview ,also prepare 
question to ask the interview. 
 Be confident and use hand gesture while explain a answer. 
 The types of questions varied across panels. Most panels asked about the 
projects listed on the resume, while some focused on fundamental 
concepts of DBMS, OS,DSA and OOP. 
 If you didn’t know the answer for any question, don’t panic. Tell the 
interviewer that you are not sure about it now, but will definitely be able 
to learn it. 
 Make your interview feel that  you are so passionate to work . 
 
 
 
 
