D E SHAW INTERNSHIP INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
About the company- D. E. Shaw is a multinational investment management 
firm founded in 1988 by David E. Shaw and based in New York City. The 
company is known for developing complicated mathematical models and 
computer programs to exploit anomalies in financial markets. 
Role Offered- SDET Intern (For the Quality and Test Engineering team based in 
Hyderabad) 
Stipend- 1,50,000 INR per month 
Selection process- 
1. Online Assessment 
2. Technical Interview 1 
3. HR Interview 
4. Technical Interview 2 
 
Online Assessment 
The Online Assessment was conducted on Hackerrank with a total duration of 95 
minutes. The online assessment had 3 sections- 
• Coding Questions (1st Question - 20 minutes & 2nd Question - 30 minutes) 
• Technical MCQs (12 Questions - 17 minutes) 
• Aptitude MCQs (14 Questions - 18 minutes) 
Since each section had a separate time limit, it was necessary to complete the 
test sequentially and the extra time would not be carried forward for the 
remaining sections. The MCQs also had negative marks for incorrect answers. 
 
Coding Question 1 
Given an array of integers of size n, consider subarrays of a given size k. For 
every possible subarray of size k within the given array, calculate the sum of the 
absolute differences of all pairs of elements in that subarray and return the 
maximum sum in that array. 
Example input –  
Array - [1,2,3,5] 
k - 3 
Output- 
8 
I solved this question with a Brute Force approach after finding all possible 
subarrays of size k and finding sum of absolute differences for each subarray to 
find maximum sum of absolute differences. However, I was able to pass all 
example testcases without exceeding the time limit. 
 
Coding Question 2 
Given a string s and two empty strings pre and post, find the lexicographically 
smallest post string that can be formed by using all characters of string s by 
performing either of the two operations – removing an element from the 
beginning of s and adding it to the end of pre or removing an element from the 
end of pre and adding it to post. 
Example input –  
s – ‘cab’ 
Output –  
‘abc’ 
I used a stack approach for moving characters in and out of the pre string and I 
used the Greedy approach to ensure that the lexicographically smallest string is 
the result. I was able to pass all example testcases with my approach. 
 
Technical MCQs 
The Technical MCQs were simple questions mostly based on DSA, DBMS, CN, 
finding errors in programs, predicting the output of a program and completing a 
portion of a given code. 
 
Aptitude MCQs 
The Aptitude related MCQs were a bit complex and included complex math 
questions too with the time limit making it harder to answer. 
 
Based on the results of the Online Assessment, 17 people were shortlisted for 
the Interview. 
 
Technical Interview Round 1 (1 hour) 
The interview took place at CUIC. The interview started off with the panel having 
a look at my resume. Since I had completed a few projects related to DBMS and 
Data Science, they asked questions based on DBMS and to test my aptitude, 
problem solving skills. 
1) If we were to create a database system for the Indian voting system, what 
tables should be included and with what form of normalization? 
I was asked to write the relational schema of the tables on paper. After I gave 
them my answer, they asked me to consider adding an element of security to 
the database system. I told them about having an admin to control access. 
However, they were not satisfied with my answer and asked for a more 
secure database system. We moved on as I didn’t know the answer. 
 
2) What is the need for normalization and what are the different forms of 
normalization? 
I told them the answer and gave them an example of when normalization 
would be required. They also questioned me about the normalization of the 
database I used in one of my projects. 
 
3) You are tasked with using a water dispenser that can dispense cold, warm, 
and hot water to fill cups. Each type of water (cold, warm, hot) corresponds 
to an array position (amount[0], amount[1], and amount[2] respectively) 
indicating how many cups of each type you need to fill. The machine has two 
modes of operation-  
• In one second, it can fill two cups of different types of water.  
• In one second, it can fill one cup of any type of water.  
The goal is to find the minimum number of seconds required to fill all the 
cups as per the amount array. 
I explained my approach of filling two maximum types at a point of time and 
moving on to the next type after finishing off with atleast one type. They 
were satisfied with my approach and I was asked to write the code on paper. 
 
4) Given an increase in the number of IPL teams, it was decided to divide the 
total number of teams in two groups and the matches played by each team 
would be based on the following conditions- 
• 1 match with every other team in the same group 
• 2 matches with other teams in the other group 
Given n number of teams, find the total number of matches conducted. 
It was more of a mathematical aptitude question as they asked me to find 
the answer for 10 teams. I gave the wrong answer at first but I was able to 
correct myself later. I was asked to find a general formula for it considering n 
number of teams and write the code for a function to implement the same 
on paper. 
 
5) Given a table with Employee name, ID, Job name, Job ID, State Code, State 
with several repetitive values in all the attributes, I was asked to find a 
suitable primary key, possible functional dependencies and the normal form. 
I was also asked to normalize the table and write relational schemas of the 
final normalized forms on paper. 
 
We also had general discussions about the internship during the interview. At 
the end of the interview, they asked me if I had any questions for them. I asked 
them for any suggestions to improve my skills. They advised me to look for more 
creative and unexpected solutions for coding questions instead of the usual 
solutions. 
 
HR Interview (15 minutes) 
The interview was more of a friendly discussion with the HR. I was asked 
questions like- 
1) Why do you prefer an internship related to testing instead of developing? 
2) What made you choose D. E. Shaw for an internship? 
3) If given a better opportunity in another company, would you prefer to stay or 
leave? 
4) What are your plans for higher studies? 
5) What do you know about D. E. Shaw and what did you get to know from the 
Pre Placement Talk? 
6) Would you prefer to work in a new environment far away from your friends 
and family? 
I told the HR about why I was interested in a FinTech related internship. I 
explained how I believed testing and developing would require equal levels of 
creativity and so it doesn’t matter whether it’s testing or developing. I also 
told her that a Software related internship in a company would be a dream 
come true and factors like a new work environment wouldn’t affect me 
much. I also said that better opportunities, higher studies are all a part of a 
future plan but I would like to gain some hands-on experience before making 
any important life decisions. 
 
After the first technical interview and the HR interview, few of us were asked 
to attend the second technical interview in the evening. 
 
Technical Interview Round 2 (45 minutes) 
The interview started off with the panel asking me to introduce myself. After 
the introduction, they moved on to the DSA questions. 
1) Given a list of library books and a list of students with each student having 
read a few books, find the minimal set of students that must have read 
maximum/almost all the library books together. 
I gave the wrong answer at first as I misunderstood the question. However, 
the interviewer was able to correct me and I was able to give the right 
answer eventually. I explained my logic of using the sliding window approach 
considering the student roll numbers were in order and books read by each 
student was stored in a dictionary with their roll numbers as keys. I also 
explained another approach using Kadane’s algorithm as the interviewer was 
looking for an optimized approach. I was questioned about the time and 
space complexity of my approach and asked for a more optimized answer. 
We moved on as I couldn’t think of a more optimized answer. 
 
2) There are 3 repositories in a github account. Each repository has around 50 
files and testing a file would require an enormous amount of time. 
Considering the problem that raises an error involving a combination of one 
file in each of the repository due to a bug in one of the files in the 3 
repositories, suggest an approach to find the file with the bug without taking 
much time. 
I explained my approach of using binary search considering the fact that a 
bug in a particular file will also affect the working of the subsequent files. I 
was asked about the time complexity of my approach and they were satisfied 
with my approach. 
3) Given a m X n matrix with integers, find a path providing the maximum sum 
from the top left corner to the bottom right corner by moving diagonally up 
or diagonally down or towards the right and without returning to the same 
spot more than once. 
I gave them a backtracking approach considering movements in the 
diagonally up, diagonally down and right directions. I was asked about the 
time and space complexity. I had to write the code on paper and they were 
satisfied with my approach. 
 
4) The question was about ball collision similar to the asteroid collision available 
on leetcode. 
https://leetcode.com/problems/asteroid-collision/description/ 
I explained a stack approach for it and wrote the code on paper. They were 
satisfied with my answer after I explained the time and space complexities. 
 
After the DSA questions, they had a look at my resume and inquired generally 
about my achievements. As I had mentioned C++ and Python as my skills, 
they asked me about the difference between the two languages. I explained 
about the differences of the compiled and interpreted language. They also 
asked me which language would be better in different situations involving 
programs with time as an important factor, programs that need not be 
precompiled again and again and so on. 
 
At the end of the interview, they asked me about why I chose to dive deep 
into a few specific languages instead of exploring more. They also advised me 
to improve myself with newer technological skills. 
 
The results were announced later at night and 2 of us from CEG were 
selected for the internship. 
 
General Tips- 
It’s completely fine if you are not a great coder in the start. You always have 
time to improve your skills. 
• Practice coding in websites like Leetcode, Hackerrank as it helps improve 
problem solving skills. 
• Have a look at questions in Leetcode Premium for the company. 
• Practice ACM CODE questions for an understanding of every single topic 
in DSA. 
• Learn from the experiences of seniors. 
• Try practicing aptitude questions also as it has great importance in the 
online assessment. 
• Improve your speaking skills. The interview will be more of a discussion 
rather than an oral test and the interviewer also notices your ability to 
interact easily. 
• The interviewer is more interested to know your creative answers to 
their coding questions. So let your creativity flow while finding optimized 
solutions. 
• Keep revising old concepts while learning new ones. 
Last but not the least…. Stay calm! 
 
All the best! 
 
MuthuVaishnavi Anand 
CEG CSE 26’ 
LinkedIn Profile - https://www.linkedin.com/in/muthu-vaishnavi-anand/ 
Feel free to reach out to me at muthuvaishnavianand@gmail.com 
 
