                                               Wells Fargo (Intern Drive) 
 
Name     :  T Nathin Kishore  
Batch      :  2022 – 2026 
Contact  :  7339362808 
 
Online test : 
        The online test was conducted in the SHL platform.  It was a proctored test and we were 
asked to attend  the test in IST dept labs. The test consisted of four sections. The first section 
consisted of verbal questions. It had twelve questions which had to be completed within 15 
minutes which could be answered pretty easily if you had basic English knowledge. You can’t 
move between sections. 
         The second section consisted of 14 business aptitude questions with a time limit of 25 
minutes. Questions were based on stocks and shares, data interpretations based on pie 
charts, bar charts, graphs. You should be able to solve those easily with basic maths. Just 
don’t spend too much time on a question and try to complete all the questions. There is no 
negative marking and you can’t navigate between questions of a section.   
        The third round consisted of two easy to medium level coding questions with a time limit 
of 40 minutes. In this section you can navigate between questions. Driver code will be given. 
The first question is  https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/area-of-intersection-of-two-circles/ . 
You have to return the answer rounded up to six decimals.  
The second question was simple. You have to return a lexicographically sorted list of repeated 
words in a given string. You could see how many test cases you code has passed. It was clearly 
stated that they are expecting a solution which passes all the test cases rather than an 
efficient code which is partially passing the test cases. 
         The fourth section consisted of one question which has to be solved in 10 minutes. The 
question was based on königsberg seven bridges. I could solve 2 of the 3 coding questions. 
More weightage was given to aptitude and verbal than coding questions. You can solve the 
coding problems in the language of your choice. 
22 students got selected for the interview. 
 
Technical round 1 : 
         The round started with standard tell me about yourself question. This round revolved 
mostly around oops, dbms and os for me while others had questions which included sql 
queries, garbage collection etc..,. They asked us to write any sorting of your choice. It is better 
to know quick, merge, heap sorts. It’s okay if you don’t know answers for some questions. At 
last, the interviewer asked me if I had any questions for him. Be prepared with some 
questions. Some candidates were eliminated after this round. 
Round 2: 
         My experience of this round will be different from my peers. They had technical and  
questions based on their resume. This round was completely me asking questions to him. He 
mentioned in his intro that he had run a startup before joining Wells Fargo. So I asked mostly 
about his startup like where he went wrong etc..,. In this round he was just observing how 
curious I am.  
 
Round 3: 
         This was a typical HR round. The interviewer asked me questions like why do want to 
intern at Wells Fargo, what are the challenges faced while doing my dbms project as a team, 
how I handled it etc.., You just needed to let them know that you are a good team player. 
After this, 12 candidates were selected out of the initial 22 for internship. 
 
TIPS: 
• Be thorough with basics of core subjects like os, dbms, oops  
• Commmunicate your thoughts with confidence. There were observing how well you 
are communicating your thoughts. 
• With regard to online test try to solve almost all the aptitude and verbal questions  
