 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Citicorp Services  
 
Citigroup Inc. or Citi is an American multinational investment bank and financial services 
corporation headquartered in New York City. Citicorp Services is a part of Citigroup. Citicorp 
Services India Private Limited provides financial services. The Company offers commercial vehicle 
and construction equipment lending, trade advance, loan against securities, and consumer loan 
services. Citicorp Services India serves customers in India.  
 
Position : Summer Technical Analyst (Internship) 
                 Technical Analyst ( PPO) 
 
Internship hiring consisted of following rounds: 
 
Round 1: Technical and Managerial 
 
1. Tell me about yourself. 
 
2. They asked questions in the programming languages mentioned in resume.They specifically 
asked questions in Python. 
 
3. They asked me to explain about the Java project in resume. 
 
4. Why Citi? 
 
I replied that I liked finance and told about how my school finance club taught me about shares and 
investment. They asked me to explain about the club and its functioning. 
 
Round 2: Technical 
 
1. Array based programming question where we have to remove the duplicate elements in array. 
 
I was asked to write the pseudocode in paper. The interviewer suggested me some special 
constraints and I modified the code accordingly. 
 
2.  Questions on semaphores, mutex and general OS concepts. 
 
3. Had to write a SQL query for a use case that required JOIN operation. 
 
It was a bit tricky. I wrote a simple solution. The interviewer helped me to arrive at an optimal 
solution. Make sure to communicate your thought process to the interviewer while trying. 
 
I was able to solve all of them and proceed to the next round. 
 
Round 3: HR 
 
The HR round was very casual as compared to other rounds. They are just trying to get to know 
more about yourself 
 
1. Tell me about yourself. 
 
2. Why Citi? 
 
3. What are your interests? 
 
4. What are your strengths and weaknesses? 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
 
 Data structures and Algorithms 
 Database management systems 
 Operating system 
 Good knowledge of projects in resume 
 Java ( favourable) 
 
Take away: 
 
 
Having a good knowledge of basic computer science domains, programming helped me to get 
placed in this company. Interviewers focused on our calm composure and confidence. Remember to 
ask questions and know more about the company whenever the interviewer asks you “Any more 
questions?”. 
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Nishaali M 
m.nishali2011@gmail.com 
 
