AMAZON SDE 2 MONTH INTERNSHIP EXPERIENCE
2022
About the company:
Amazon is a product based company. It has a lot of divisions like e-commerce,
cloud computing (AWS), digital streaming, AI (Alexa), ECHO and so on. It’s
one of the MAANG companies.
Experience:
Amazon isn’t a regular visit to our college. They approached our college for
internship 2 years back and left without picking any interns. But in recent
trends, Amazon is taking a good count of interns from all the colleges around
India.
They held two rounds for selection. The first one was online assessment.
They asked 2 coding questions and then a work personality test. The
questions were very easy, it was more of practical and implementation
oriented. Most of us were able to attend both of them. The personality test
was kept to check your work ethics and whether you are a fit for their work
culture. It is almost like other usual personality test where you would be
provided with a situation and you must either agree or disagree. We still don’t
know whether it is taken as a metrics for evaluation.
OA: (HackerRank)
The question pattern for the online assessment would change for every year.
This year it was only coding round whereas previously they would ask coding
questions along with code debugging (i.e semantic and syntax errors) and
some technical questions sections. So prepare yourself for both coding and
also technical questions.
Interview:
Then for the interview, they selected around 74 students (both MIT and CEG).
The interview is one of the crucial part in selection for Amazon.
Interview Format: Code pair
“I’d rather interview 50 people and not hire anyone than hire the wrong
person” - Jeff Bezos.
In the interview, we had an introduction where each of us took a turn
introducing ourselves. In this interview, you wouldn’t have any HR round to
talk about your strengths. So when you introduce yourself, tell them your
technical strengths and what projects you have worked on. Present yourself in
a pleasing way. Then you would be asked to share your screen and use
LiveCode to code your questions.
You will be provided with a question. Even if you already know the answer,
start with brute force because the entire interview will be testing your
communication with the interviewer and your approach to problems.
When providing your approach, go in hand with the time and space
complexity and also why you are going with it. And then, after the approach,
you will be asked to code. When doing so, explain the code when you are
typing and what that snippet would work as.
If time permits, the interview would go for another question. In some cases, 3
questions could be asked. It depends on the interviewer. In the end, you will
be allowed to ask a few questions. Ask appropriate questions that help them
understand how much you are interested in working for the company.
Round 1 - Online Assessment
The Online Assessment was split into two sections. One being the coding
round and other being the work-personality round.
The coding round was really easy. The question were like real life problems of
the basic question.
1. Optimize arranging the letters in a button cell phone.
For each string given as test case, we have to find the optimized way to
arrange the letters in the 9 button such that minimum number of clicks should
be performed to type the text.
Sol: use Priority Queue
2. Find the grayest area in a given screen ( matrix ) .
Each cell in a matrix/ screen may be black which is represented as -1 and
white as 1. To calculate grayness for each cell you would have to find the
difference between no of black area and no of white areas in the cell’s
identified row and col. The one with maximum value (absolute) is the answer.
Sol: Calculate row_sum and col_sum for each row and col. Then using that,
find the maximum absolute sum of row_sum[i] and col_sum[i].
Round 2 - Code pair interview
1. Run-length-encoding
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/run-length-encoding/
The task is to convert a string “aaabbcccc” to “a3b2c4”
Questions asked
- Condition in which a string could be “aaaabbaaa”
- Reduce space complexity
- Does the length of the solution string is always less than original
2. Happy Strings
https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-happy-string/
The task is you will be given 3 characters ‘a’, ‘b’, ‘c’ that has a, b, c
occurrences. The substring of the resultant string generated shouldn’t have
three consecutive same characters (like “aaa”). Generate the longest string
Question asked
- The same question when instead of three characters infinite number of
numbers would be provided with any number of occurrences.
Tips:
Prepare well on these topics
- Strings
- Linked List
- Trees
- Arrays
The online assessment needs practice on coding. Prepare using LeetCode,
GeeksForGeeks. The interview shortlist process might need a bit of luck. But
when you enter the interview, you should be able to tackle the trick questions
posed by the interviewer. In the end, after all the preparation go through the
14 leadership requirements from Amazon (just in case, interviewer may check)
and STAR approach.
