LOADSHARE INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
About the Company 
LoadShare Networks is one of India’s fastest-growing logistics technology companies, founded in 
2017 and backed by reputed investors such as Tiger Global, Matrix Partners, BII, Stellaris, and others. 
The company provides scalable and tech-driven solutions across multiple domains including Quick 
Commerce (Blinkit, Zepto, BBNow), Food (Swiggy, Zomato), Hyperlocal services (Apollo, Licious), 
Grocery (Reliance, Spencers, ONDC), eCommerce (Flipkart, Amazon, Meesho, ShipRocket), and 
Bike Taxi (Uber, Ola). 
With coverage in over 500+ towns, handling ~500K orders per day, and a fleet of 20K+ riders, 
LoadShare leverages a strong technology platform to optimize logistics across multiple use cases. The 
company continues to innovate in supply chain SaaS platforms, powering over 1M+ shipments per 
day. 
 
Online Assessment (Virtual) 
The selection process began with an online assessment consisting of two rounds: 
1. Round 1: Aptitude and Technical MCQs (60 questions – 60 minutes) 
o 
This included questions on quantitative and analytical aptitude, logical reasoning, and 
computer science fundamentals. 
59 candidates were shortlisted for the next round of OA. 
2. Round 2: Coding (2 problems – 40 minutes) 
o 
Two coding problems were given: 
▪ 
Problem 1: Find and print the most frequent vowel in a given string. 
▪ 
Problem 2: Given a string of digits, find the length of the longest even-length 
substring such that the sum of the first half and second half digits are equal. 
I was able to solve both problems successfully, and all test cases passed. 
 
20 candidates were shortlisted for the interview. 
 
Interview Rounds (Offline at CUIC) 
Technical Round (1 hour) 
• 
Started with project discussion. I was asked to: 
o 
Explain the schema in the backend, 
o 
Describe the functionality and working of my project, 
o 
Additionally, I talked about the architecture patterns I used. I explained DAO and 
MVC (which I applied in my projects).  
• 
SQL problem testing JOINS and UNIQUE constraint concepts, followed by a related query 
question. 
• 
Two coding challenges: 
▪ 
Extract all substrings with non-repeating characters from a given string.(I 
wrote the solution code for this and explained my approach) 
▪ 
Generate all valid IP addresses from a given string of digits (I explained the 
approach and time/space complexity). 
• 
Questions on Java concepts like Garbage Collection and Wrapper Classes. 
• 
Difference between pass by value and pass by reference. (I explained and differentiated these 
with an example) 
He asked me if had any questions for him - I asked about the tech stacks used in LoadShare’s 
projects. 
 
After this, I was shortlisted for the HR round (totally 11 were selected out of 20) 
 
HR Round 
This round focused more on personal insights and situational questions: 
1. Self-introduction 
2. Why LoadShare? 
3. My knowledge about the role 
4. Why not big companies like Amazon or Google? 
5. Future plans (M.Tech/MS) 
6. Hackathon experience (as I mentioned in my resume) 
7. AI tools workshop I attended (as I mentioned in my resume) 
8. Location preference 
9. CTC expectations 
10. Whether this was my first interview: I explained that I had attended two interviews during 
internship hiring but was not selected. This was my first interview in the placement season. 
When asked about the possible reasons for rejection, I said I wasn’t sure, but I had stayed 
consistent and focused on building my resume, doing personal projects, practicing regularly, 
and participating in hackathons to gain experience. 
 
 
 
 
Final Virtual Technical Round ( 5 out of 11 were shortlisted) 
(15 minutes, next day) 
• 
Asked about my experience from the past two rounds. 
• 
My learnings in the past two months. 
• 
I was given a real-world problem and asked to give the approach (It was highly related to the 
role) 
• 
Asked how I learn a new skill — he was impressed and appreciated my structured approach 
• 
I asked him what he likes the most about working at LoadShare, and he shared his personal 
experience. 
 
 
At around 12 PM, the results were announced. Out of 11 candidates who cleared the HR round, finally 
4 candidates were selected for the role — I was one among them. 
This process tested my problem-solving, SQL, and Java knowledge, as well as communication and 
consistency. It was a challenging and rewarding experience that I am proud of. 
 
Stay consistent with coding practice, projects, and hackathons — they really help during 
interviews. Be clear in your thought process, confident in your answers, and curious enough to 
ask questions. With patience and consistency, the right opportunity will definitely come your 
way. 
 
Best of luck! 
 
 
 
Pavithra B 
CEG CSE ‘26 
E-mail: pavithracsb175@gmail.com 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/pavithra---08-/ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
