WELLS FARGO INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
(INTERNSHIP) 
 
About the company: 
Wells Fargo & Company is an American 
multinational financial services company with a 
significant global presence. The company operates 
in 35 countries and serves over 70 million 
customers worldwide. Today, Wells Fargo India 
operates in Hyderabad, Bengaluru, and Chennai. It 
is considered one of the "Big Four Banks" in the 
United States, alongside JPMorgan Chase, Bank of 
America, and Citigroup. 
 
ONLINE TEST 
APTITUDE PART (20 mins) 
This round happened to be in the Aspiring Minds (SHL) platform. The round 
consisted of 3 sections namely verbal aptitude, business aptitude and coding. Both 
aptitude sections had MCQs which had to be answered compulsorily and free 
navigation was prohibited.  
Verbal Aptitude: Consists of 12 MCQs to be solved in 15 minutes. They can be on 
vocabulary (guessing the meaning of the word as per the use in the sentence), 
comprehension, and some basic grammar corrections. It can be practised from 
sample questions given on the SHL website or other websites with questions of a 
similar pattern. 
Business Aptitude: Consists of 15 MCQs to be solved in 20 minutes. Completely 
observation-based and logic-based. Basic mathematics and understanding of profit-
loss using pie charts and bar graphs is sufficient to answer completely. 
 
 
CODING PART 
Two set of coding questions were asked 
Driver code or function declaration was given for all the coding questions. 
SET-1(45 minutes) 
1. Write a function to find the longest common prefix string amongst an array of 
strings. 
But the question wasn’t direct, it was stated as a scenario and we must interpret it 
using the visible test cases. 
Approach similar to:  https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-common-prefix/ 
But some hidden test cases had spaces-which must be removed and the string was 
case sensitive-conversion was also required to pass all test cases. 
2. Given an array Arr [], write a program that segregates even and odd numbers. The 
program should put all even numbers first in sorted order, and then odd numbers in 
sorted order. 
Same question as this was asked: Segregate Even and Odd numbers | Practice | 
GeeksforGeeks 
 
SET-2 (20 minutes) 
1.Given an array of integers, return the sum of all integers using threads. 
Similar to: Sum of an array using pthreads - GeeksforGeeks 
 
Partial test cases do carry a weightage in score so try solving as much as test cases possible. 
66 students were shortlisted for the physical interview held at CUIC 
 
INTERVIEW 
Pre-Interview Session: 
Before the formal interview, a team of recruiters and HR professionals engaged 
candidates in an interactive discussion instead of a traditional PowerPoint 
presentation. The session focused on introducing the company and outlining 
expectations for potential interns. 
Round 1:  
Duration: 30 minutes 
 The interview started with the interviewer reviewing my resume. 
 The first question was a classic "Tell me about yourself," where I 
highlighted my CGPA, projects, interests, and expressed my passion for the 
field. 
 I was asked about a skill I had learned on my own outside the curriculum, 
and I mentioned C++. 
 The interviewer asked why I chose C++, and I explained that since C was 
part of the curriculum, learning C++ was a natural progression. 
 The interviewer inquired about the differences between C and C++. 
 I was asked about the pillars of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) 
and to explain each. 
 I elaborated on the concepts, showcasing my understanding. 
 I was asked to write code for an abstract class and explain its purpose. 
 The interviewer questioned me about data structures and how they are 
implemented in real life. 
 I provided examples such as Stacks-Browser History, Priority Queues-Lifts 
and Graphs-Social Networking. 
 He questioned me about static keyword in C++ and its associated data 
structure 
 I explained the concept of the static keyword in C++ and mentioned stack 
is used to implement it. 
 He asked me to discuss about various sorting techniques, and I was asked 
about their time complexities. 
 I was then prompted to write code for an efficient sorting technique; I 
chose merge sort. 
 He asked me to explain the Graph Traversal techniques, and I explained 
them with an example. 
 I was asked which is faster between Breadth-First Search (BFS) and Depth-
First Search (DFS). 
 I was asked to design and explain all the use cases involved in an ATM 
machine. 
 I demonstrated a comprehensive understanding of ATM functionalities 
using diagrams and flow charts. 
 Ended with the interviewer asking if I had any questions. 
The round concluded with a positive note, advancing me to the next round. 
Round 2: 
Duration:20 minutes 
 The interviewer began by asking about my aspirations and sought my 
unique selling points. 
 He presented real life scenarios that tested my thinking capabilities. 
 One scenario involved making multiple transactions simultaneously using 
UPI, ATM card, and a cheque. 
 Asked how I would manage the multiple transactions and what the balance 
would be afterward. 
 I explained using a lock mechanism inspired by database management 
system (DBMS) transaction concepts. 
 Discussed achieving a tally and explained that it can be done using a log table 
without accessing the original database. 
 The round was characterized by a focus on learning and understanding 
rather than solely assessing. 
Outcome: Successfully cleared Round 2. 
HR Round: 
Duration:15 minutes 
 Introduced myself and explained why I sought an internship at Wells Fargo. 
 Highlighted strengths and weaknesses. 
 Received insights into Wells Fargo's work culture. 
 Interviewer shared personal experiences. 
 Discussed stipend, workplace culture, and travel alliances. 
 Gained information on these aspects. 
Outcome: Successfully selected for the internship at Wells Fargo along with 20 students. 
 
All the very best!!! 
POOJAA S 
CEG CSE’25 
E-Mail: poojaakumar719@gmail.com 
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ poojaa-kumar-476 
Mobile: +91 7558121642 
