Batch: 2017 - 2021 
Name of the Company: Wells Fargo 
About: 
Wells Fargo & Company is an American multinational financial services company with 
corporate headquarters in San Francisco, California, operational headquarters in 
Manhattan, and managerial offices throughout the United States and overseas. 
Number of Rounds: 4  
1. Online (Aptitude and Coding) 
2. Technical round 
3. Managerial round with Vice President  
4. HR round 
Online Round: 
The online round consisted of Multiple-choice Questions and Coding Round. 
MCQ - Aptitude, Reasoning, Logical thinking and English comprehension. 
General Tip: Be a little fast in answering these MCQs. Try to use elimination techniques 
among choices. Don’t spend too much time in one particular MCQ. Make sure there are no 
negative markings before start. 
The coding round consisted of 2 questions. One from greedy algorithm (similar to N-
meetings in one room problem) and other was from Trees. Time for coding question – 45 
minutes 
General Tip: In coding round, always try to solve questions with all test cases. For example, if 
there are 2 questions, instead of solving 50 % of test cases in both questions, try to solve 1 
question with all test cases 
I concentrated on the first question and was able to pass 50 % of the test cases in first 
question. Fortunately, I got selected for the next round. Though I didn’t excel much in 
coding questions, I did my MCQ very well. 
General Tip: Never consider MCQ questions of less weightage. Most banking and FinTech 
companies give higher priorities for Aptitude questions. (Indiabix for Aptitude questions) 
Out of around 300 students, 40 got shortlisted. 
Technical Round: 
It went around 45 minutes. Started with “Tell me about yourself”, then I explained my 
summer internship at SAP Labs and the project that I did there. The interviewer had many 
questions in my project and I explained them.  
General Tip: When you say about a project in an interview, make sure you know every bit of 
your project and also the base domains that your project is related to. 
The interviewer then told me to open a WordPad and write a code for automatic word 
suggestions. Like if you have words like deer, dear, deep and deaf and if you type de, it 
should show all the words as suggestions. I used C++ for coding and explained my logic. 
Finally, he asked me to explain about my machine learning projects. 
Managerial Round: 
 
At first the interviewer asked me to draw an ER diagram for an E-commerce site like 
Amazon and then normalize them. 
Then he asked me about some of the java features. 
Also, I had some application questions like,  
1. What data structure can be used for an ATM denomination 
2. What data structure can be used for a lift in an apartment. 
For these questions, I tried to explain them using the possible data structures for that 
particular question and then tried to use the optimal one as the answer. I also explained 
them to the interviewer and he appreciated about my approach.  
Finally, he asked me whether I had any questions for him. I asked about the carrier growth 
opportunities in Wells Fargo.  
At the end of this round, he appreciated my confidence in answering the questions and 
greeted all the best for my next round. 
HR Round: 
This round was a short 20 minutes round.  
It had some general HR questions.  
How was the day, my strengths and weakness, how was my internship in SAP Labs etc. 
This round primely tested my communication skills and my confidence. 
General Tip: Be honest in this round. Speak confidently and project yourself as a person who 
is willing to learn new things. 
Finally, I was one of the 11 students who got placed in Wells Fargo in our batch. 
Topics to be focussed: 
Data structures, DBMS, OS and be strong in any one of the coding languages (preferably C++ 
or JAVA)  
Take Away: 
Be confident in your answers, be humble enough during interviews, never lose hope and 
keep trying. Also make sure you read about the company and their requirements prior. 
 
ALL THE BEST! 
Name: Pothikkannan G  
Mail Id: pothikkannan1@gmail.com   
Linked In: Pothikkannan G 
