Barclays 
Barclays is a British multinational investment bank and financial services company, 
headquartered in London, England. Apart from investment banking, Barclays is organised 
into four core businesses: personal banking, corporate banking, wealth management, and 
investment management. 
It consists of two rounds 
Round 1 : Online test ( Duration : 1 hrs 30 mins). 
The assessment was conducted online in HackerEarth. 
It consists of 30 Technical MCQs (related to DBMS, Operating system, JAVA) and two 
coding questions. 
I solved both the coding questions and tried my best to answer the technical MCQs. 
After one week, they shortlisted around 30 students and I’m also one of them. 
Tip : Try to pass the maximum test cases in both the coding questions. 
Round 2 : Technical and HR interview ( Duration : 30 mins). 
1. Tell me about yourself ? 
2. Why do you want to study at this university and how would you feel it? 
3. Do you know the OOPS concepts and tell me a brief about it? 
4. Difference between overloading and overriding. 
5. Types of polymorphism in java. 
6. How will you achieve multiple inheritance in java? 
7. Tell me about any one of your favourite academic projects. ( I said my DBMS project 
for which I used Netbeans for frontend and Oracle for backend ) 
8. Give an overview of your project. 
9. Steps to connect the netbeans and oracle. Explain it? 
10. What are the different types of statements in JDBC and explain its function? 
11. What are the other functionalities and usage of netbeans ? 
12. How will you run the java code? 
13. How will you combine more tables together (SQL joins and some queries related to 
SQL)? 
14. Did you help your neighbours in your area ? (I said yes and explain it with an 
example) 
15. What is your role in your house? 
16. Did you help your classmates by clearing their doubts in subjects during examination? 
(I said yes and explain it with an example) 
17. How do you feel about working in a team environment? 
18. Do you have any questions for me?  
These are the questions asked in the interview round. There are also some of the questions 
(nearly 3-4), I couldn’t answer. I just told the interviewer that I am not aware of those topics 
and I also made a small mistake while answering a technical question related to project, he 
just smiled at me and corrected those mistakes. It was really a good experience. 
At last the next day around 12:00 pm results were announced and I was happy to be one to be 
selected.   
Topics to be focussed: 
 Data structures 
 Database management systems 
 Operating System 
 Java 
 
Take away: 
Having a sound knowledge of basics, coding and confidence will help to be placed in 
this company. Hope for the best. 
Hope this helps! Achieve greate heights!. 
Thank you and Best of luck. 
Name       : Prethiga Devi G 
Mail id     : gpd2999@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
