VEGROW - INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
 
About the Company: 
 
Vegrow is in the business of fresh fruits & vegetables with an addressable market size 
of $43 Billion. They are a tech platform partnering with farmers, aggregating supply, and 
selling to organized demand through partnerships. Their mission is to simplify farming, 
increase land utilization, and improve farmer incomes. Vegrow is a VC-funded startup 
founded by a group of IITians with deep experience in agri-input & agri-output 
companies.  
 
Eligible Branch: 
UG: CS, IT & AIDS (Summer Internship for Pre-final Year)         
 
Eligibility Criteria: 
SSLC: 70% & above; HSC : 80% & above; UG: 8.0 & above, No current arrear 
 
Selection Process:  
●​ Online Test 
●​ Technical Interview 
●​ HR Interview 
 
ONLINE ASSESSMENT:  
 
Duration: 90 minutes  
 
The test was conducted on the HackerRank platform with 3 coding questions and 1 
SQL query based question.  
1.​ A set of tables will be given and then we were asked to write a SQL query to join 
all the tables and display all the distinct records of names who were employed as 
a manager, senior manager, employee. (all these were part of the table) 
2.​ A question based on dynamic programming was asked which was like we had an 
array [ing,grading,pack] and each word had a cost to it. The string 
“gradingpacking” was also given, we needed to check the minimum cost to obtain 
the string. 
3.​ A question based on graph which I didn’t even bother to read as I was running 
out of time  
4.​ A simple question based on heap/stacks where we consider the last 2 elements 
of an array and compare them. If the 2nd last element was greater than push 
them into a supply array and print the array  
 
This round was purely based on ranking on the leaderboard on HackerRank. It was also 
seen how we approach each question without AI tools.  
 
TECHNICAL INTERVIEW:  
 
Duration: 1 hour 
 
13 people were selected for the interview rounds at CUIC 
 
When my name was called out for the interview, I felt extremely anxious and nervous 
but somehow managed to hide it as soon as I entered the interview room.   
 
Firstly they asked for my resume and started of with the basic question of “Introduce 
Yourself”  
Next they went into technical and some of the questions they asked were:  
1.​ Difference between ACS and AKS(Part of Amazon web services - I had put that 
in my resume) 
2.​ Explain docker and kubernetes  
3.​ Do you know any python framework or any other framework 
4.​ Isomorphic Strings - Leetcode Isomorphic Strings 
5.​ Boundaries of a tree - I initially said we would just do post-order traversal but 
they explained the question properly and I got the idea from a problem that I 
solved earlier for my preparation. It was the right side view of tree and using that 
I told my solution.  
6.​ They asked a question on DBMS and SQL which I answered a bit unconfident 
but they were happy about my approach 
7.​ A query based on inner join  
8.​ Finally, they ended with a binary search to find the element which is immediately 
smaller to the target. Which I was able to come up with a solution and they 
thought me a better way to do it and we were discussing about the solution for 
sometime 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HR INTERVIEW(TECHNICAL ROUND 2):  
 
Duration: 60 min 
 
Out of the 13 people only 5 got selected for the next round.  
 
In Vegrow there were just 2 technical rounds and no HR round. I initially thought it was 
for 20 min(based on seniors' experience) and was just browsing through my projects 
and practising some pre-defined answers. I was the first one to go into the panel so I 
really wasn’t expecting any questions, but however these were the questions asked to 
me:  
1.​ Tell me about yourself 
2.​ Tell me about a project in my resume(They choose the project to talk about) 
3.​ Did you host it? Show if you can.  
4.​ They asked questions about my project and the stack I used.  
5.​ I had put a project about NLP and ML and they asked questions based on NLP 
and what model I used for NLP and how does it work 
6.​ After that, they went into System Designing - which I had no clue about and didn’t 
even expect those questions. They asked how the System design of a website 
like Netflix look like. Some example questions were:  
●​ If the video buffer time needs to be faster what would I use  
●​ If too many people access the website what should I do 
●​ The login API’s  
●​ Hosting mechanism - where I explained about docker and EC2 instances.  
 
  ​
Some concepts on how to improve system efficiency was learnt from the AWS 
course that I completed during my summer holidays. So I was able to answer to these 
questions  
7.​ Then the went into DSA round were I asked:  
●​ Climbing Stairs - All the methods including space optimisation  
●​ LCA of a binary tree - which I wasn’t able to do the entire solution but they 
encouraged me to do so and told me I was on the right track.  
8.​ They ended off with a simple DBMS concept based question on shared locking 
and unlocking 
 
Out of 5, 2 got selected for the Internship.  
 
 
 
TIPS:  
●​ Start your preparation as soon as possible on leetcode or any other platform.  
●​ If you don’t have time, go through the leetcode blind 75 questions and once you 
are done with that make sure to solve some extra questions based on the same 
pattern - doing this you will get an idea on how each question is being 
approached.  
●​ If you are python developer I would strongly suggest you to go through neetcode 
- NEETCODE QUESTIONS and solve as many questions as possible  
●​ If you need a quick intro on how each concept works and some basic questions 
to get you started then go with Youtuber - Greg Hogg. 
●​ If you want to have good knowledge about DSA as a whole you can refer to the 
STRIVER DSA COURSE. I’m telling you, he is the one who is going to save your 
recursive, Dynamic Programming and Greedy. So don’t forget to check this out.  
●​  Building a clean and presentable resume is very important so take time to build 
a good resume. You can trust AI to get some catchy phrases, but do not use AI to 
build your entire resume. It’s ok to allocate time and build your relationship with 
your resume.  
●​ A day before your interview, learn one good project thoroughly and make sure 
you can answer any question about that one good project and keep answers 
ready for known questions like ‘Tell me about yourself’, ‘Why did you choose this 
role?’, etc. 
●​ The most important part is to be confident in your interview. If you don’t feel 
confident, prepare and practice for interviews with as much importance as you 
prepare for DSA.  
 
Keep pushing yourself as much as you can for the next 3-4 months of your internship 
drive and always maintain a calm nature during your preparation and interviews.  
 
ALL THE BEST FOR YOUR INTERVIEW AND PREPARATIONS!! 
 
Always feel free to contact me at any time, I will be more than happy to help 
you out!  
 
Name: Ragotma Ragavendar 
Contact: +91 9944689759 
Email: ragotmaragavendar@gmail.com  
Linkedin: Ragotma_LinkedIn 
 
 
 
