HSBC Interview Experience 
 
About HSBC: 
HSBC (Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation) is one of the world’s largest banking and 
financial services organizations, founded in 1865. It operates in over 60 countries, serving millions of 
customers through retail, commercial, and investment banking. It is the largest Europe-based bank by 
total assets, and the 3rd largest non-state owned bank in the world. HSBC is known for its global 
reach, strong digital transformation initiatives, and focus on sustainable finance. With its headquarters 
in London, it plays a significant role in bridging Eastern and Western markets. 
 
Role offered : Trainee Software Engineer 
 
Selection Process: Simulate, Online coding Assessment, Technical Interview, HR Interview. 
The Selection Process: 
 
370 candidates applied for the role and 295 people were eligible to appear for the Online 
Assessments. 
Note : 75 candidates were excluded since they hadn’t registered in HSBC website or provided the 
wrong mail-id for registration. We were instructed to provide our college mail id for registration. So, 
make sure you register using the specified mail-id. There wasn’t any resume-based shortlisting 
process. 
1. Simulate Assessment: 
  
The Simulate assessment was conducted on 2nd September 2025 at IST department lab and it 
was the first filtering round in HSBC’s selection process. It was more like a personality assessment, 
where candidates are tested on how well they adapt to the work culture of HSBC. The round’s 
duration is 70 minutes. The round consisted of many sections including 
 
Situational Judgement Questions. 
 
Personality Questions. 
 
Formal / Informal Questions. 
 
Aptitude Questions. 
 
Basic English Questions. 
 
The results were declared after a few minutes and out of the 295 candidates, 9 candidates were 
selected for the next round. 
Tip: The simulate assessment is the most crucial part of the filtering process at HSBC than the coding 
round. There were probably 8 sections, and I would recommend to give your best in at least 3 or 4 
sections especially the numerical aptitude section, the English section and the section in which 
candidates were given a scenario and 5 actions or responses. Based on the scenario, the candidate 
must rank the 5 actions. Also, We were allowed to use scientific calculator for the numerical based 
questions. I would also recommend referring the following links, so that you can prepare yourself for 
the Simulate assessment: 
 
How I would prepare for the HSBC Simulate Assessment 
 
HSBC Practice Zone 
2. Coding Assessment: 
 
The second round was conducted on the same day, right after the first round and it was a 
comparatively easy assessment. The assessment took place on Codility platform and candidates were 
tested on 3 questions of easy to medium difficulty. 
1. Find the largest 2 digit substring : 
Given a string consisting of numbers, return the substring with largest 2 digit number. 
Examples: 
1. S = “12345” return 45. 
2. S = “79361” return 93. 
3. S = “00009” return 9. 
 
2. Dictionary usage :  
Given 2 strings dictionary and message, modify message such that if a word in message is not 
present in dictionary, replace the word with “###”, else use the same word. 
 
 
Example: 
1. Dictionary = “Footballer Ronaldo best Messi the earth in leo” 
Message = “Leo messi is the best footballer in the world” 
Return “Leo messi ### the best footballer in the ###” 
      3.    Latest Date Possible: 
Given a string of  5 characters and the first 2 characters represent the month of a year and the 
last 2 characters represent the date. The string might contain the character “?” in those 4 
positions. Return the maximum date that is possible by replacing the “?”, while also ensuring 
the date is logically correct. If a valid date isn’t possible, return “xx-xx”. 
 
Example: 
1. Date = “1?-31” return “12-31” 
Here the “?” mark can be replaced by 0,1,2. If you replace it with , the string 
becomes “11-31” but that is invalid, since the month November(11) has only 30 
days. So, the options now available are 0 and 2. Here, Even though replacing with 
0 is a valid argument, One should select 2, since we need to return the latest valid 
date. 
 
2. Date = “31-04” return “xx-xx” 
Here “04” represents the month April, which has only 30 days, and the date 
represents “31”, which isn’t correct. hence the result must be “xx-xx”. 
3. Date = “0?-?9” return “09-29” 
I was able to solve the first 2 problems completely and partially solve the 3rd question. The results 
were declared on 10th September 2025. Out of the 9 candidates, 8 were shortlisted for the interview 
process and fortunately, I was one of them. 
Interview Process 
The interview was scheduled on 18th September 2025 at SSN College of Engineering. The interview 
consisted of 2 rounds – a technical round and a HR round. Almost 80 candidates from 4 colleges 
attended the interview process. 
3. Technical Interview : 
 
There were 10 interview panels and all the candidates from Anna university were interviewed 
in the first panel. The questions were fully based on resume and hence the questions for each 
candidate were different. The interview started with an introduction about the interviewer and he also 
asked me to introduce myself. I clearly expressed my strong interest in problem-solving, and 
mentioned I have solved over 600+ problems on geeksforgeeks and leetcode combined. This was 
important because the interviewer was very much interested in assessing how well-versed you are in 
your specific area of interest. He asked me about my favorite programming language and I mentioned 
Python. Then, He asked me to solve one DSA question: 
 
Validate Parenthesis in a string containing letters, symbols and parenthesis 
At first, I jumped straight into writing the solution. I would recommend not to jump right in 
and to first explain your approach to the interviewer thoroughly and proceed on writing your 
solution.  
He first asked me to explain my approach and I also asked some questions so that I could get 
better clarity regarding the question, this indirectly made a good impression about me for the 
interviewer and he instructed me to write down the solution in python. I wrote down my 
approach of using a stack (a list in python) and showed him a dry-run of my approach. He 
added some edge-cases and tested whether my approach would work well for those too. I was 
very confident about my approach and explained that it would satisfy all the test-cases. 
He was satisfied and started questioning about other topics. 
Other questions asked: 
1. How do you handle exceptions in python? 
2. Explain me about one of your project. 
3. Explain about the google - drive project.(I mentioned that project in my resume) 
4. What was your role in all these project? 
I explained the projects briefly and mentioned I worked on the frontend part in all the projects. The 
round concluded after I asked some questions regarding HSBC. 
My Questions: 
1. What’s the best way to develop knowledge and skill in finance? 
  
He mentioned that HSBC being a fintech organization, an employee would get a lot 
of exposure on cyber security and authentication systems. He also added, working on various 
projects will automatically result in developing the skill-set that one should require to grow in 
their professional career. 
Since he mentioned cyber security, I framed my next question based on cyber security. 
2. What are some resources that I can refer to gain knowledge in cyber security domain? 
He instructed me to read some articles and mentioned some forums and communities 
that I can refer to know more about it. 
       These questions show that you are genuinely interested in joining the organization. This is one 
important aspect I would recommend to everyone. 
The results were declared after 2 hours and Overall 21 people were shortlisted for the final round. 
4. HR Interview: 
 
Fortunately and unfortunately, I was the first one to be called for the HR round. The 
interviewer congratulated me for entering the final round and asked how I feel at that moment. We 
had a normal conversation and officially the round started after sometime. This round was more like a 
rapid fire round. Questions were immediately fired once you end your response for the current 
question. The round was conducted for only 3 to 5 minutes, and the questions included: 
1. What’s your CGPA? 
2. Are you willing to relocate to Pune? 
3. What’s your favorite subject in Computer Science? 
4. Where do you see yourself in 5 years? 
5. Are you planning on doing masters? 
6. What are your strengths? 
7. Have you ever worked in pressure situations on meeting the deadlines? 
8. What are 3 areas or aspects that you would like to improve on yourself? 
Even though these are typical HR questions, the way he asked made it a fast-paced interview and I 
answered all questions with my best effort. The interviewer also assessed my fluency in answering the 
questions and Even though, I was able to answer well, I struggled with last question and the 
interviewer calmed me and advised me to stay cool. The interview was hence concluded. 
The results were announced after an hour and I was extremely elated to know that I was one among 
the 18 people selected and the only one selected from Anna University. 
 
 
PREPARATION TIPS: 
I chose Python for solving DSA problems. But feel free to choose a language, you are comfortable 
with. And for core concepts preparation, I would recommend the following: 
DSA: https://takeuforward.org/strivers-a2z-dsa-course/strivers-a2z-dsa-course-sheet-2 
OS: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/operating-systems/operating-systems-interview-questions/ 
DBMS:  https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dbms/commonly-asked-dbms-interview-questions/ 
OOPS: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/interview-prep/oops-interview-questions/ 
Last minute revision questions: https://takeuforward.org/interviews/must-do-questions-for-dbms-cn-
os-interviews-sde-core-sheet/ 
Be confident on what you mention in your resume. Try to completely understand the question and 
come up with a solution. It’s completely normal to get stuck in a question, feel free to admit it to the 
interviewer and move on to the next question. Try to score better in the next question. Try to 
showcase your strengths in your self introduction, since it can set-up a perfect foundation and helps 
guide the interview in a way, where you could give your best performance. Try to be more articulate 
(think out loud) and express things so that the interviewer can better understand your thought-process. 
 
Cheers and All the very best!!! 
My Personal Details: 
Name: Ragul Kailash M 
Mobile: +91 86678 20060 
Email: ragulkailash12@gmail.com 
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ragul-kailash-m/ 
CEG CSE’26 
 
“There is a 1% chance and sometimes that chance is good enough” 
- Virat Kohli. 
 
           
      Feel free to ping me if you have any further queries…..  
