 
Wells Fargo Interview Experience  
Wells Fargo is an American multinational financial services company that offers a wide range 
of banking, investment, and mortgage products and services.  
Role Offered: Technology Program Analyst  
Sequence of Selection:  
1. Online Test 
2. Technical Interview (Virtual) 
3. Technical + HR Interview (Offline) 
4. HR Interview (Offline) 
 
1. Online Test:  
1. Coding Question – Level Medium - Minimum Length of Anagram Concatenation  
2. Coding Question – Level Easy - Count Vowel Substrings of a String  
3. SQL Question – Level Medium - Given 2 tables users and transactions, find the total 
transactions and total amount of users for the year 2023. 
Ans: select u.email, count(t.id) as total_transactions, round(sum(t.amount), 2) as 
total_amount from users u join transactions t on u.id = t.user_id where t.dt like '2023%' 
group by u.id, u.email order by u.email;  
The test was conducted on the HackerRank platform with a duration of 60 minutes. I completed 
it in 30 minutes since the questions were fairly easy and standard. 
The results were declared after 4 days, and 20 candidates were shortlisted. I was not part of that 
list. However, on the day of the interview, an additional list of 6 candidates was released, and 
I was included in it. 
 
2. Technical Interview (Virtual):  
The first round was a virtual interview conducted on Microsoft Teams. It began with a self-
introduction. The interviewer asked me which programming language I was most proficient in, 
and I said Python. The questions were related to general Python concepts, including decorators, 
lists, sets, loops, and OOP concepts. 
 There were also basic questions from Operating Systems (deadlocks), Computer Networks 
(DNS), and DBMS (an SQL query for the second most frequent item in a table). 
One question was about how to handle too many requests to an API. I attempted it but didn’t 
know the exact answer, so I admitted it. The interviewer then explained the solution. She also 
asked about my internship experience at IIT Madras as a research intern in cryptography. 
At the end of the interview, I asked her about her transition from her previous company to Wells 
Fargo, and she explained it clearly. The results were announced after 10 minutes, and I was 
selected. 
 
3. Technical + HR Interview (Offline):  
Although it was described as a technical + HR interview, only technical questions were asked, 
except for one: “Why Wells Fargo?” 
The interviewer wrote the questions on paper and handed it to me to answer. It began with a 
DSA application question on which data structure to use and how to approach it. I initially 
suggested a data structure with higher time complexity and then moved to a more efficient one. 
The interviewer also guided me toward the most effective data structure. 
Next, a question on time complexity was asked. I gave the correct answer at first, but when the 
interviewer said it was incorrect, I changed my answer. Later, he mentioned that my first answer 
was actually correct, so I explained why I had changed it. 
After that, there were questions on strings, lists, the range function, and generators in Python. 
Towards the end, I asked him about how code migrations to Java take place at Wells Fargo, and 
he explained it in detail. The results were announced immediately, and I was selected. 
 
4. HR Interview (Offline):  
The interview started with a self-introduction, followed by questions from my resume. I was 
asked to explain in detail about my internship on cryptography, which focused on verifiable 
SQL queries on outsourced databases. I was also asked about one of my projects, where I 
explained it clearly along with the tools that were used. 
Next, there were questions on Java vs. Python, where I gave a general comparison of both. The 
interviewer then asked whether Java is a completely object-oriented language. Questions also 
covered strings in Java, their immutability, and mutable alternatives such as StringBuffer and 
StringBuilder. Further, I was asked about OOP concepts like inheritance and polymorphism. 
At last, I asked him if he had any advice for me. He said that I had done well. I was the last 
candidate for the interview, and the results were announced after 10 minutes. I was delighted 
to be selected for the role. 
 
Be ready with your self-introduction, internship experience (if any), and project details. 
Communicate with clarity. Even if you don’t know the answer, stay calm, as the interviewer 
will help guide you to the right solution. Wishing you all the best! 
 
Rajesh Kumar C, 
CEG – CSE’ 26, 
E-Mail: rajesh.cos179@gmail.com  
Mobile: +91 8248447085 
