 
 
 
 
     Barclays  
 
Barclays is a British multinational investment bank and financial services 
company, headquartered in London, England.  
 
Note : This is an internship interview experience 
 
Round 1: Online Test (Duration - 1 hour and 30 minutes) 
 
This round had 30 Multiple choice Technical Questions. Major part of this 
section had questions based on OS and Data Structures. A few questions were 
based on DBMS, Computer networks and OOPS. Also there were two coding 
questions, with difficulty level moderate and hard. One was based on Arrays 
(moderate) and the other one was based on String (hard) 
 
MCQs played a major role here, hence it is important to pay attention to the 
concepts while preparing for the interviews. 
 
Round 2 : Technical Interview 
 
I was first asked to introduce myself followed by the technical questions. 
1. A puzzle where I had to form two equations using the given scenario. The 
two equations had to be solved to find the two unknowns. 
2. Practical/Real life examples for certain OOP concepts 
3. Questions on how and where to use exceptional handling 
4. Certain questions that needed spontaneous answers (Ex: How many 9s are 
there between 0 and 100) 
5. Questions on SQL queries where the required tables and the output had been 
provided. I was expected to come up with the query that results in the given 
output 
6. Questions from the projects mentioned in the resume (like any other 
technical interviews) 
7. Some scenario based questions (Ex: “What will you do when you are 
working for a project which is about to reach the deadline but others in your 
team are just leisuring around?”) 
8. Any questions to the interviewer 
 
 
Round 3 : HR Interview 
 
I made it to the HR round and these were the questions asked  
1. Tell me about yourself which is not in the resume 
2. Why did you choose College of Engineering Guindy among all the colleges 
in India? 
3. Why Computer Science and Engineering among all branches? 
4. What did you learn/take away from your college life in CEG? 
5. Why do you want to work with Barclays? (There are certain things that are 
unique to Barclays (Ex: 300+ years legacy, importance given to women in 
the organizational structure), such unique things may help you answering 
this question) 
6. Do you know about the Five core values of Barclays? (which is called 
“RISES”, you definitely have to look into it as you make it to the HR round) 
7. Incidents in your life that you could relate to the core values of Barclays? 
(Would be a little difficult to think then and there) 
 
Topics to be focused: 
 Database Management Systems 
 Computer Networks  
 Object Oriented Programming 
 Project related detailed understanding and explanation 
 
Take Away: 
  
Always do a little background research before attending any Company’s 
interview. Sometimes interviewers may look at your flexibility to learn new 
technologies rather than your knowledge, so being flexible might help. Be 
confident and the interview is half done!!. 
 
Thank you and All the very best 
 
Raveena Rajagopal 
rraveena2408@gmail.com 
 
 
 
