 
 
                          APPIAN INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE (SOFTWARE ENGINEERING ROLE) 
Name: Roshni Banu S 
Department: CSE 
Mail: rigana0206@gmail.com 
Contact: 7604985870 
Batch: 2023 – 2027 
 
Appian Corporation is an American cloud computing and enterprise software company 
headquartered in McLean, Virginia, part of the Dulles Technology Corridor. The company 
sells a platform as a service (Paas) for building enterprise software applications. It is 
focused on low-code development, process mining, business process management, and 
case management markets in North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia. 
Appian offers a low-code platform with a visual Interface and pre-built development 
modules. As with other low-code platforms, It enables businesses to create apps and 
automations using little or no code. 
There were four rounds of interviews. 
1. Coding round 
2. Technical Round 1 
3. Technical Round 2 
4. HR round 
 
Coding Round:  
                 Candidates were sent a link to attend the online coding round, which was held on 
the glider.ai Platform. The platform was heavily proctored which included video, audio and 
screen sharing. We had to solve three questions in 75 mins.  
Qn.1:  
We are given a list of player numbers from 1 to n that contains exactly one duplicate 
and exactly one missing number. 
We are also given a fixed set of teams, each containing certain players. 
 
Our task is to: 
1. Identify the duplicate number in the list. 
 
 
2. Identify the missing number in the list. 
3. Determine the team status: 
 
"Valid" if both duplicate and missing players belong to the same team. 
"Multiple Teams" if they belong to different teams. 
"No Valid Team" if they are not in any team together. 
 
Example Input: 
Arr = [1, 2, 2, 3, 5, 6] 
Teams = [ 
    [1, 2], 
    [3, 4], 
    [5, 6] 
] 
Explanation: 
       Numbers should be from 1 to 6. 
       Duplicate → 2 (appears twice).     Missing → 4 (doesn’t appear). 
 
Team membership: 
                     2 is in [1, 2] (Team 1). 
                     4 is in [3, 4] (Team 2). 
              Different teams → “Multiple Teams” 
Expected Output: 
               2 
4 
Multiple Teams 
 
Qn.2:   (Similar to Leetcode problem – Find first and Last Occurences of a number) 
              We are given a sorted list of integers and a target value. 
               Find the first and last positions (indices) of the target in the list . If the target is not 
found, return [-1, -1]. 
    Input: nums = [5, 7, 7, 8, 8, 10], target = 8 
    Output: [3, 4] 
 
 
 
Qn.3: (Similar to Leetcode problem – Insert interval) 
        You are given a list of non-overlapping time intervals (the schedule) sorted by start time, 
and a new time interval representing a new session to add. 
Insert the new session into the schedule so that: 
 The resulting schedule remains sorted by start time.Any overlapping intervals are merged 
into one continuous interval. 
Example :  Input 
Existing schedule: {{9, 11}, {13, 15}} 
New session: {10, 14} 
Output:    Updated schedule after inserting and merging: 
[9, 15] 
 
Nearly 40 students from both CEG and MIT got shortlisted for the Technical rounds. 
 
Technical Round 1:  
             The interview began with my self-introduction, followed by questions on OOPs and 
DBMS. I was given a real-time design problem to implement a parking space system with 
constraints like availability status, charging sockets, and car size limits. I discussed DBMS 
as my favourite subject, which led to questions on SQL commands, constraints, and 
attributes, normalisation. We then moved to OOPs topics such as inheritance, 
polymorphism, virtual functions, constructors/destructors, and Java concepts like JDK vs 
JVM vs JRE, along with final, finally, and finalize, Interface. The round concluded with a 
discussion on my projects, skills, and achievements from my resume. 
For me the technical Round 1 happened for nearly  1hr 10mins 
 Be thorough with Java and core subject concepts . 
Be clear with your resume projects. 
 
 
 
 
 
Technical Round 2:  
                This round focused more on behavioural questions. I was asked about what 
motivates me, what upsets me, why I chose Appian, and why I’m interested in the Software 
Engineering Intern role, what if I wasn’t selected for the next rounds, One main reason why 
do I need to join Appian? Then We discussed my projects in detail, including challenges 
faced during group work and the reasons behind selecting our project ideas. 
Duration – 25mins 
 
HR Round: 
        In the HR round, I was asked about my educational background (state board or 
otherwise), 12th grade marks, CGPA, and family background. The session concluded with 
an opportunity for me to ask questions to the interviewer. 
Duration – 5mins  
 
Finally, 12 of us got selected for the position of Software Engineer Intern. 
 
Key takeaways 
1. Try to provide optimal solutions 
2. Time management (you need to code for 3 problems in 75 mins) 
3. Focus on DSA and OOPS DBMS OS  
4. Practice DSA problems on Leetcode and Geeks for Geeks  
5. Answer the questions confidently 
6. Questions are based on what you have provided in the resume. So have a clear 
understanding of concepts mentioned in your resume. 
 
Hope whoever reads this writes one just like I did. 
All the best. 
Roshni Banu S  
