Wells Fargo Interview Experience
About the company:
Wells Fargo is an American multinational banking company that operates in 35 countries
and is considered one of the big four banks in the United states. They provide banking,
investment and mortgage products and services, as well as consumer and commercial
finance through more than 7,200 locations, more than 13,000 ATMs, the internet
(wellsfargo.com) and mobile banking.
Interview process:
The entire process consisted of 4 rounds
●
Online test
●
Technical Interview
●
2 rounds of HR interview
Online test:
The test was conducted on the amcat platform and consisted of 3 sections: verbal aptitude,
business aptitude and coding section.
The verbal aptitude section had questions on reading comprehension and interpreting and
understanding given passages to answer questions.
The business aptitude section contained questions involving interpreting and understanding
various graphs and some analytical questions.
The coding section consisted of three questions:
1.
First question: Given a string and a character find the frequency of the character in
the given string.
2.
Second question: Given an array and a position k, sort the elements from 0th position
to k - 1th position in ascending order and elements from kth till end in descending
order.
3.
Third question: Given an adjacency matrix representing a graph and a start vertex,
check whether it is possible to visit all nodes in the graph exactly once (check
whether Hamiltonian cycle exists).
The questions were on the easier side in all the three sections.
A total of 22 students were shortlisted for the second round.
Technical Interview:
The interview was held at MIT campus the day after the online test and it went for about 30 -
40 minutes.
The interview started with me giving an introduction about myself. Then the interviewer
asked which is my favourite/comfortable data structure and I answered stack. He then
proceeded to ask about the implementation of stack and how to store and retrieve
information in a stack.
The next question was “Given an array of strings, sort them with respect to the first
character, if they are equal, sort wrt second character and so on”. I gave a modified version
of bubble sort as the answer and he immediately asked about all sorting algorithms that I
knew. He then asked me to illustrate the merge sort with the help of an example.
Next question was “given a node of a binary tree, find its inorder predecessor and
successor”. I was able to give a satisfactory answer and he accepted it.He then asked me
about the time complexity and space complexity of my algorithm.
He then asked me questions related to DBMS concepts like what is a primary key, foreign
key, various normal forms a database can be in. I answered all the questions and he seemed
happy about it. He then asked me to write a SQL query to display a column in ascending
order of its values and I was able to write it.He then gave me a situation and asked me to
design the database and relations for it and asked me how to store the information of a
particular column more optimally. I was not able to come up with an answer which he
expected so he helped me to answer it.
He then went on to ask me about the projects i mentioned in my resume and questioned
about some competitions which i had in my resume. He also asked me why I preferred
python more (as I had mentioned I was more comfortable with it) and also asked me the
differences between Node.js and regular javascript.
Finally the interview got over and I was asked to wait.
HR Round 1:
This round went more like a conversation rather than an interview. The interviewer talked in a
jovial manner and told me about his career and stuff. He then asked me why I chose Wells
Fargo and I answered that I was interested and excited about learning how we as software
engineers can help a finance/banking company and he was pleased with my answer.
He then wanted me to ask a few questions and I asked him about 3-4 questions including
“how will an intern spend his time in Wells Fargo?” and “What does the company expect from
an intern like us?”. I also asked about what kind of security features were in place if a data
breach was to occur in the company.
Overall it went for about 25 minutes and I was confident in whatever I talked and asked
which seemed to work with the interviewer.
HR Round 2:
This round went for about 5 minutes. The interviewer asked me how my day was and how I
felt about the company. She then went to ask about my projects in my resume and asked
about whether I liked working in a team or individually. I talked about both of them and talked
about what I like and don't like in both situations.
She then asked me about my skills and strengths as a person. After that she wanted me to
ask a question and I asked about the projects we as interns would be working on in Wells
Fargo.
The results were announced in the evening of the same day and 12 people including me
were selected.
Tips and Insights:
●
Practice dsa questions on a daily basis from leetcode,geeks for geeks and
hackerrank or other platforms. Even if you end up solving less number of questions
make sure you completely understand whatever questions you solve.
●
The resources provided by CODE-ACM were really good and covered all topics that
could be asked in technical and coding rounds.Start your preparations around 2-3
months before to give yourself time to be strong in basics.
●
Prepare DBMS,OS and OOPS concepts along with dsa preparation as you won't have
time before the interview.
●
The aptitude part of the online test contained easy but lengthy questions. So take
your time, read the question and answer it. Try to answer as many aptitude questions
as you can to boost your chances.
●
Be confident and convincing and whatever you answer in the interviews. The
interviewer assesses how you answer and come up with solutions and not whether
you are correct in your answer. They always try to help you, so be confident and
maintain a cool head.
●
Your resume is very important as half of the questions in the interview will be from it.
So make sure to only include stuff that you know and can answer any kind questions
on it.
●
Also make sure to add 2-3 of your best projects and take a look at them before the
interview as a lot of questions will be asked about your projects.
●
Always prepare a few interesting and different types of questions to ask the
interviewer which shows your genuine interest in the company.
ALL THE BEST!!!
S K Rithesh Akash
CEG CSE’26
Mobile: 9962046121
Email: ritheshakash.sk@gmail.com
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/rithesh-akash-5b35252a7/
