CITICORP 
 
 
ABOUT: 
Multi National investment and financial banking service. 
 
NUMBER OF ROUNDS: 3  
DETAILS ABOUT THE ROUND: 
Round 1: Technical interview  
Round 2: Technical and managerial interview 
Round 3: HR interview 
 
QUESTIONS ASKED IN EACH ROUND: 
 
Round 1: 2 members in the panel 
 
1. Tell me about yourself 
2. Area of technical interests (I told DataStructures and DBMS) 
3. What is BST? 
4. Compare the performance of operations like insertion, deletion in 
Linked list, array, doubly linked list. 
5. Realtime applications of stack and queue 
6. Implement queue using stack ( I was asked to write the code in a 
paper) 
7. Given a table and a set of outputs, I was asked to write queries to get 
the output that was mentioned.  
8. Given a case and asked which datastructure can be used in that case 
9. Questions from projects  
10. What is your understanding about Machine learning and Artificial 
intelligence? 
11. Graph traversal methods 
12. Questions on projects mentioned in the resume 
 
I was directly taken to the next round by my interviewer. 
  
Round 2: 2 members in the panel  
 
1. Tell me about yourself 
2. Strenght and weakness 
3. Activities in the college other than academics 
4. Questions about academic projects 
5. Explain OOPs(encapsulation, polymorphism,inheritance) concepts 
with realtime example. 
6. What is the use of garbage collector? 
7. What is JDK,JRE,JVM? 
8. Difference between Abstract class and Interface. 
9. Some managerial questions like what if you have a short deadline, 
would you focus on the quality of work or compromise the quality and 
complete the work?  
10. What are the scheduling algorithms?  
 
Round 3: 1 HR Manager 
 
1. Tell me about yourself  
2. Why do you want to join Citi?  
3. What is that one thing that you liked about citi from the Pre-Placement 
talk? 
4. Tell me about your extra curricular activities and your achievements in 
that.  
5. Do you have any questions regarding Citi? 
 
 
TOPICS TO BE COVERED: 
 
Data structures 
DBMS 
(Be strong in topics that you’ve mentioned in your resume) 
 
With regards, 
S.Kavya 
kavyamsiva@gmail.com 
  
 
