APPIAN INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE (INTERNSHIP) 
 
NAME: Sachin Abhinav 
DEPT: CSE 
MAIL: sachinabhinavjb27@gmail.com 
CONTACT: 7418356711 
Batch: 2022 – 2026 
 
Round 1: Online Assessment Test 
 
The test was conducted on an online platform Glider AI platform. There were three 
coding questions. 
 
Question 1: Josephus Problem  
 
Given start person and  k, you have to print the order in which people die. Refer to the 
geeksforgeeks page. 
 
Question 2: Make Queue 
Inputs: 
 
You are given a group name with persons in each group. You are also given an array of 
strings with name of persons standing in a line. 
Output: 
You should return an array of strings (name of persons).  Array is constructed using 
following rules: 
i) 
If a person belonging to a group is standing in the line, then all other persons 
in that line belonging to the same group move behind him. Basically just 
making the people of same group adjacent to each other in the order in which 
the input line is. 
ii) 
After arranging using rule i), if you find all the persons belonging to a group is 
present then you have to replace all the person’s name with their group. 
Question 3: 
Given breadcrumbs for a website as an array of array of strings, Make a tree out of it. 
Sample input: 
arr = [[‘Main’, ‘Dashboard’, ‘Settings’], [‘Main’, ‘Profile’, ‘Uploads’], [‘Main’, 
‘Dashboard’, ‘Products’], [‘Main’, ‘Profile’, ‘Remove], [‘Main’, ‘Manager, ‘Work’], [‘Main’, 
‘Manager,  ‘Review’]] 
make a tree out of it by linking as follows: 
Main 
 
-Dashboard 
 
 
-Setting 
 
 
-Products 
 
-Profile 
 
 
-Uploads 
 
 
-Remove 
 
-Manager 
 
 
-Work 
 
 
-Review 
 
I was able to solve Question 2 and Question 3 (partial). I along with 21 candidates was 
shortlisted for next round 
 
 
Interview Phase 
 
The interview was conducted in CUIC. It consist of 3 rounds. 
 
Round1 (Technical – 25 mins): 
 
The interview starts with my self intro. Then he asked me how I would choose 
candidates, I were in the role of selecting candidates. I say, “I would check the candidates 
Computer fundamentals and his aptitude along with problem solving abilities”. Then he tested 
me on OOPS, DBMS and web technology. 
 
 
He asks me to find the object with less weight out of 8 similar looking objects but to 
use the balance weighing scale only twice. 
 
He then asked me Two sum problem (first problem of leetcode)  
 
He also tested my sorting algorithm techniques 
 
Round 2 (More like a HR – 10 mins): 
 
This interview is more like a HR round. Only technical question asked was the time 
complexity of Quick sort. He also questioned me whether I would do Masters or not. 
 
Round 3 (HR – 5mins): 
 
This round lasted for less than 7 minutes. He asked me why he should hire me. Then 
some questions on my family background was put up. Finally he asked questions on my project 
in the resume. 
 
In the eve results were announced. I was one of the 5 selected candidates. 
 
Tips: 
 
Learn basics of OOPS and your 4th semester DBMS concepts 
 
Know whatever in your resume 
 
General Tips: 
 
Be Confident 
 
Be Honest with yourself 
 
Don’t think about results, keep working on it… 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
