 
VISA INTERNSHIP – 2021 
BATCH  2019 - 2023 
 
When said VISA we see them as debit/credit card issuer. But what is VISA for engineers – they 
facilitate electronic funds transfers throughout the world in safe and secure manner. 
 
VISA’s intern interview process consists of 2 rounds – Online coding round and 1 technical interview. 
 
1st Round – Online coding test (2 coding questions): 
 
Test took place in Hackerrank, and consists of 2 questions. One was easy and another one was a 
medium-easy question. 
1) In 1st question I was asked to return the sum of the count of common prefix between 2 strings in 
which the 2nd string is formed by popping off the first char from the given string, we have to 
continue this process until the second string becomes empty. 
For Eg) 
 
Let the given string be “abcab”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sum   =   7 
 
 
Code should return the output 7. 
 
 
Sum of similarities of string with all of its suffixes - GeeksforGeeks 
2) Problem statement for the 2nd question was same as given in the link: 
(8) Mathworks - LeetCode Discuss 
 
I was able to do 1st question completely and in the second question 12/13 testcases were passed. 17 
were shortlisted for the next/final round. 
PREPARATION: 
 
Have a good knowledge on the questions given in CODE-ACM pdfs (Base material for coding 
interview), then repeatedly practice problems in Leetcode, GFG. Also have a look on top interview coding 
questions on Leetcode and GFG. For DP watch YouTube tutorials if you didn’t understand any problems (I 
prefer techdose and B to B SWE), also refer InterviewBit for standard problems on backtracking and DP. For 
DP and backtracking concentrate more on standard problems, questions will be mostly from the variation of 
standard one. 
 
Solving a number of problems won’t help. You have to get the logic behind the problems 
implementation and why this idea is used (most importantly for DP and backtracking problems). Try to 
classify between problems, like why it is different from others. 
 
The day before online test go through the questions asked in 1st round of Visa internship experience 
at Geeks for Geeks. 
String 1 
String 2 
Count of common prefixes 
“abcab” 
“abcab” 
5 
“abcab” 
“bcab” 
0 
“abcab” 
“cab” 
0 
“abcab” 
“ab” 
2 
“abcab”  
“b” 
0 
“abcab” 
“” 
0 
 
2nd Round – Technical Interview (Final round for Internship): 
In second round, the Interviewer asked me to explain about myself. And at next he gave me a 
question to code on linked list.  
• 
Given a linked list he asked me to delete a node in the liked list, with a given key value (Delete node 
in linked list) 
He asked me to write the driver code and implement it. After that he asked me to explain the code. 
Whenever the interviewer asks you to explain the code/ algorithm, never look at your code and explain 
the code, you will be lost in the middle. Instead try to explain the algorithm that you thought before you 
actually start to code the program. 
Next, he moved on asking questions from DBMS, OOPS. The questions were 
➢ What is inheritance? 
➢ What is dequeue? 
➢ Any real-world application of dequeue. 
➢ Intersection and Union in DBMS. 
➢ Difference btw primary key and foreign key. 
➢ Relations in DBMS. 
➢ Any real-word use case of one-to-many relationship. 
➢ What is indexing (in DBMS)?  
➢ What do you know about triggers? 
➢ Given a situation like after inserting a data in one table how will you modify the row in another 
table. 
I answered all of the questions except 1-2, he was ok with that. Later he asked do I have any 
question to him. At last, 10 were offered internship. 
 
The interviewer was so calm and made me feel comfortable, just like you see in movies interviewers 
are not the ones who will try make you fail, in fact they will look to explore what you are capable of, they 
remain always calm and will make you comfortable.  
 
PREPARATION: 
 
For coding questions asked during interviews, what you have prepared for the 1st round is enough. 
Go through DBMS, OS, OOPS and other theoretical topics you mentioned in your resume.  
For DBMS concepts refer tutorials point and during the day before interview google out the top 
interview DBMS questions and refer it. Also familiarize yourself in writing SQL queries. For OS GFG’s last 
minute notes is enough. For OOPS refer prepinsta, which will be under C++. 
The day before interview go through the questions asked in 2nd round of Visa internship experience 
at Geeks for Geeks.  
Once you enter into the interview you will forget the fear of attending interview, so relax yourself 
before interview and don’t let the fear to enter into your head. 
 
➢ Aim not to solve many problems, rather you should grasp the idea behind the implementation to 
solve the problem. 
➢ Start your preparation process at least 2 months before the drive starts, if you have enough time 
never think that we have long way to go, start practicing by yourself on easy problems on arrays, 
strings, etc. And be familiar with C++/ Java along with their STL functions. Other programming 
languages are not preferable.  
➢ If you are in short of time, it’s never too late start practicing problems, just don’t go through bits and 
pieces of each topic, try to complete a topic as a whole, most importantly be strong in arrays, 
strings, DP (standard probs), Backtracking (standard probs), again this is for those who are in short of 
time, questions may or may not come under this topic, always prepare all the topics if you have 
time. 
➢ Again, pdfs from CODE-ACM will be really helpful never miss the program. 
➢ Try to combine and study with your friend under mutual consent, it will be a great learning for both 
of you unless you both never distract from preparation.  
➢ Most of the companies test your aptitude skills. Aptitude questions from the most companies will be 
easy. If you are in lack of confidence visit careerride and for problem practice and formulas visit 
IndiaBix. Most companies test on topics like: 
Problems on trains, Time and Distance, Time and Work, Simple and Compound Interest, 
Profit and Loss, Partnerships, Permutation and Combination, Probability, Ratios and Percentages. 
➢ For HR round, be strong in what you have mentioned in our resume like projects, skills, etc. Never 
ever mention what you are not familiar with in your resume. Prepare yourself an answer for basic 
and commonly asked HR questions. 
Summary: 
Practice coding problems daily, and make sure that you have done mostly all the questions from CODE-ACM.  
The night before your interview, visit past-internship experience from GFG. 
Go through the theoretical subjects DBMS, OS and OOPS.  
Be strong in your resume. 
 
Wishing you all the best to ace in your Interviews. 
Sanjeev K M 
9965165651 
er.sanjeev.au@gmail.com 
SANJEEV KM | LinkedIn 
 
