BNY MELLON TECHNOLOGY( INTERNSHIP ) 
ABOUT THE COMPANY 
 
 
BNY Mellon Technology Private Limited, established in 2000, is a group 
company of BNY Mellon operating in India, providing technology solutions to the bank.  
SELECTION PROCESS 
ONLINE TEST (CODING) 
 
 
There was an online test with 4 coding questions. They were categorized as 
easy, medium and hard. There were 2 medium questions and 1 each from easy and hard 
categories. The easy question had a straight forward solution but involved large numbers. So 
a simple solution in Python was accepted. Languages like C, C++ would have made the 
solution a little complex. One of the medium questions was an array manipulation question 
and the other question was based on graphs. The hard question was a Dynamic Programming 
question. Candidates who solved the easy question and atleast one medium question 
completely were shortlisted for the interview process. 
TECHNICAL INTERVIEWS ( 3 ROUNDS) 
 
 
The interview process had three rounds in total. In the first round, the 
interviewer asked us to introduce ourselves and then tested my understanding of fundamental 
data structures and their related concepts. Also the concepts of pointers were discussed in 
detail. The interviewer also asked me to write and explain some algorithms like the quick sort 
algorithm. Based on the performance in the first round, the candidates were shortlisted for the 
next round. In the second round of the interview, I was asked to write down code snippets for 
three coding questions. All questions were based on string manipulations and I was 
specifically asked to give recursive solutions. Candidates were then shortlisted to round 3 of 
the interview process. In round 3, I was asked about any extra project that I worked on apart 
from that required by the academic curriculum. I talked about a cricket simulator program 
that I wrote in C++ and there were further questions about the project. The final list of 
selected candidates was shared with us on the next day. 
INTERNSHIP EXPERIENCE  
 
 
The summer internship was held virtually from May 2020 to July 2020. After 
two weeks of general and technical training, we were assigned to separate teams. We were 
also assigned individual mentors whom we could reach out to, at any time. I was given an 
Angular migration project in which I worked on migrating a web application from Angular JS 
to Angular. The overall experience was very pleasant and enriching. 
FOCUS ON: Data structures fundamentals, basic algorithms and problem solving 
ALL THE BEST! 
Sathish Kumar S ( sathishpsbb@gmail.com) 
