TEKION INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE 
About the company: 
Tekion Corp is a cloud-native technology company founded in 2016 by Jay Vijayan 
(former CIO of Tesla). Headquartered in Pleasanton, California (USA), Tekion builds 
next-generation, cloud-based platforms for the automotive industry. Its flagship 
product is the Automotive Retail Cloud (ARC) – a comprehensive SaaS platform that 
helps automotive dealerships, OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturers), and 
customers manage everything from sales and service to finance and customer 
engagement. 
Rounds: 
• Online Assessment 
• Technical Round 1 
• Technical Round 2 
• HR Round (online) 
Online Assessment: 
It consisted of 2 DSA problems and 20 MCQ’s which was based on Core concepts like 
DBMS,OOPS,CN,OS and basic Javascript, React. 
DSA Problems: 
1. The first problem was more of like a 0/1 Knapsack problem but given in 
different wordings like there are X API requests and the available bandwidth is 
Y like that. Basically it was Knapsack given in other words. 
2. The second problem was given like 
There is an array of size n. We need to find the number of triplets in the array 
such that the indexes of the three numbers( i<j<k) and the sum of the elements 
at those indices must be divisible by K. 
n = 5, K = 3 
arr = [2, 1, 3, 4, 6] 
Output:4 
(2, 1, 3) → sum = 6 → divisible by 3 
(2, 1, 6) → sum = 9 → divisible by 3 
(2, 3, 4) → sum = 9 → divisible by 3 
(2, 4, 6) → sum = 12 → divisible by 3 
 
I tried to do optimal solution but I was not able to pass all the test cases. So I 
used Brute force and all the test cases were passed. 
Tip: 
 
Check for the constraints in the question for the input size. If it seems that can 
be solved in brute force try it. It may also result in passing all the test cases like me.  
Something is better than nothing.   
Around 30  people from CSE were shortlisted for the interview at CUIC on the next 
day. The company came separately for CS-Developer role that mainly selected 
candidates from CSE department of CEG and MIT. 
Technical Round 1(40 min): 
 
The first round started at 10.30 am and I was the first candidate for the panel. 
The interviewer greeted me and asked for my resume. He asked me to introduce 
myself about the things that are not on my resume. Be prepared for it. I expressed my 
interest in problem solving and my leetcode profile. He asked me how many problems 
I have completed and asked me to explain a problem that I recently solved and its 
solution. 
 
If such questions are asked make sure you tell him the problem that you know 
well. Tell him all the possible edge cases and why use this approach. The interviewer 
focuses on how you approach the problem rather than deriving a direct correct 
solution. 
 
Then he gave me one DSA problem, 
1. You are given an array of strings. Your task is to return an array of strings such 
that if a particular string is present in the array then all of its permutation 
should be eliminated from the array. 
 
arr = ["abc", "bca", "cab", "xyz", "zyx", "foo", "ofo", "bar"] 
 
 
 
 
Output: 
 
["abc", "xyz", "foo", "bar"] 
• Group 1: ["abc", "bca", "cab"] → keep only one (say "abc") 
• Group 2: ["xyz", "zyx"] → keep only one (say "xyz") 
• Group 3: ["foo", "ofo"] → keep only one (say "foo") 
• Group 4: ["bar"] → keep it (no permutations) 
 
Keep thinking of various solutions that may solve the problem if asked to optimize. 
This gives a good impression about you and your problem solving skill. They don’t 
expect you to provide correct solution at the beginning. They see your way of 
thinking. They may also give clues. 
I came up with brute(check all permutation) and better solution(sorting strings).He 
gave me a clue and I told my optimal approach. Keep thinking of various approaches 
because that is what they want. He asked if I don’t know just tell him but I tried to 
bring up a solution. Don’t give up because you must have prepared a lot and a 
solution will strike at the time if you think. 
Then he asked about my internship experience and my projects. 
Then he asked for any questions and I asked 2 questions based on Tekions cloud 
platform. Be prepared with question beforehand. 
The interview lasted for 40 min. He confirmed me that I will have further rounds and 
after 5 min the HR confirmed it. 
Tip: 
Develop a good connection with the interviewer. Greet them and talk to them as if 
you had met them earlier and you have a good connection with them. 
Communication is also a most important part in interviews. 
Around 18 members were shortlisted for the 2nd round in the afternoon session. 
Technical Round 2 (1 hr 10 min): 
In this round the interviewer asked about my internship experience my role. I 
did an off-campus internship at a startup as I did not get selected during my 3rd year 
through CUIC. I explained my role as an AI/ML intern. 
Then he gave me 2 DSA Problems: 
• MinStack 
• LRU cache 
Both the problems are available in leetcode. The same strategy, explain why 
you use that particular data structure for the task. Explain the edge cases. If 
they give hints like “that’s all or do you miss something” then check your logic, 
if you missed something then mention it or else explain why it is not necessary. 
Question in OS on process synchronization and its solution were 
asked(semaphores and mutex locks). 
The interviewer asked me to write code in pen and paper for the above codes. Then I 
was asked whether there are any questions and I asked about the opportunity for 
learning in Tekion. After the round I was immediately called for the HR round which 
was online. 
Around 13 people were selected for HR round in CSE. 
 
HR Round(30 min): 
 
HR round focusses on whether you align with the companies work culture. The 
HR had my resume. Typical HR questions were asked like 
• Tell me about yourself? 
• Tell me about your projects? 
• How did you come up this idea ? (give real life scenario on the need of your 
project) 
• Which real world problem did it solve? 
• I was a team leader in my project team, so questions were asked on my 
leadership qualities and team work. 
• Strength and Weakness ? 
• What is your goal in 5 years? 
HR round will be mostly in a fun manner. Don’t be stressed, be calm and speak with a 
smile in face. Greet them and talk to them as if you are in tekion team. 
 
After 3 hours the final results were announced and 9 people were selected for CS 
Developer role and I was glad to be one of them. 
 
Preparation: 
• Start your preparation during semester holidays(before it will be more better but 
alteast start from semester holidays) and be strong in all of the DSA concepts. 
Practice problems in leetcode daily and keep revising. 
• Be strong in core concepts like OS,DBMS,OOPS,CN. Know your resume in and out. 
All the questions will be asked from your resume. Don’t fake it , they will know 
whether you are lying. 
• Know your projects well and the reason for using each tech stack. There may 
questions based on the tech stack you used be prepared. It is all based on the 
interviewer. 
 
ALL THE BEST ! 
 
Name: Shakthidharan S 
Mobile: 9585277099 
Linkedin: www.linkedin.com/in/shakthidharan-s-2351a5261 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
