                                                       
                                    ALSTOM TRANSPORT INDIA LIMITED 
 
Alstom is a French multinational company operating worldwide in rail transport, passenger 
transportation, signalling and locomotives, with products including the AGV, TGV, Eurostar, and 
Pendolino high-speed trains, in addition to suburban, regional and metro trains, and Citadis trams. 
 
Today, Alstom in India employs close to 5600 people and in line with Government of India’s ‘Make 
in India’ initiative, Alstom has been investing heavily in the country in producing world class rolling stock, 
components, design, research and development to not only serve the domestic market, but also rest of the world. 
Alstom placement process consists of 4 rounds: 
Round 1 : Aptitude , verbal Reasoning  , Logical Reasoning. 
After completing the first round, students were selected for Group Discussion  Round. 
Round 2: Group Discussion Round 
A team of 8 members were participated in Group Discussion Round. Topics were  mostly about  current 
Affairs, technologies and General topics. 
Topic was given by the panel ; we h 5 minutes for preparation. 
Round 3: Technical Interview 
1. Introduce yourself 
2. Project Explanations 
      Briefly described about projects in the resume. 
3. Solve two programming questions. (where  two programs were easy level) 
1. Reverse linked list  
2. Reverse the words in a string  
 
4. Which subjects do you like the most ? and justify your answer. 
5. Which programming language are you comfortable with? And Reason? 
These were questions asked me in the Interview(about 30 mins).  
Round 4 : HR 
The HR round was very casual as compared to other rounds. They are just trying to get to know 
more about yourself. Be confident throughout the process. 
1 . Tell about Yourself 
2. What do you think  you could  have done better in college ? 
3 . What do you think  you could  have done best in college ? 
4. Why do you choose Alstom? 
Topics to be Focused: 
• 
Data Structures 
• 
Database Management Systems 
• 
Operating System 
• 
Aptitude 
Hope this will helpful for your placements  
Thank you and  All the best  
 
Shalini G     
shalinig2309@gmail.com 
