‭FIDELITY INVESTMENTS‬
‭About the company:‬
‭Fidelity Investments is one of the largest and most well-known financial services companies in‬
‭the world. Founded in 1946, Fidelity has grown to become a prominent player in the investment‬
‭and asset management industry. Headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, the company offers‬
‭a wide range of financial products and services to individual investors, institutions, and‬
‭employers.‬
‭Number of rounds:‬
‭The recruitment process consisted of 3 rounds:‬
‭1.‬ ‭Online Test‬
‭2.‬ ‭Technical Round‬
‭3.‬ ‭HR Round‬
‭Details about the rounds:‬
‭Round 1: Online Test (04/09/2023)‬
‭The online test consisted of MCQs based on English, technical MCQs, 2 coding questions of‬
‭easy-medium difficulty, and 2 questions for which we were expected to write algorithms for. The‬
‭test happened on the hirepro platform. Since the test happened around 20 days before the‬
‭actual interview, I couldn’t recollect any of the questions that were asked, or the test duration.‬
‭But here’s one of the coding questions:‬
‭Given a pattern with missing digits, for example 1_2_5 (where ’_’ indicates missing digits), fill‬
‭the missing digits in such a way that, the resulting number is the largest possible perfect square‬
‭that can be formed from the given pattern. I used a brute force solution to solve this.‬
‭The other coding question was way easier than this.‬
‭Round 2: Technical Interview (27/09/2023)‬
‭24 people were shortlisted for the interviews, and I was one among them.‬
‭Firstly, the interviewer asked me to introduce myself. I gave a short intro on my academic‬
‭background and highlighted my strengths. Then she asked me to explain about the most recent‬
‭project I have worked on. Since that was based on DBMS, I gave an overview about the project.‬
‭After that she asked some questions like what kind of database and data structures does‬
‭Google search engine use. Along with the reply to this question, I added that Google uses AI to‬
‭recommend search results based on previous search queries. She then asked me what‬
‭knowledge I have in AI/ML. I started explaining in detail about the two ML projects that I had‬
‭mentioned in my resume. After a few other brief questions like about my hobbies, the interview‬
‭was over.‬
‭I asked her a couple of questions, one was about her journey in Fidelity Investments, and the‬
‭other was about the roles and responsibilities of an intern at the company. (Note: Do not forget‬
‭to ask about the interviewer in case they don’t introduce themselves)‬
‭Overall, the interview went smoothly and it was very comfortable talking with her. This round‬
‭went on for 15-20 minutes and I was called for the HR round immediately.‬
‭Round 3: HR interview (27/09/2023)‬
‭Here again, I gave the same introduction about myself. The interviewer started off by introducing‬
‭herself and asked me what I have been doing apart from academics at CEG. I explained to her‬
‭about my roles in ACM-CEG and CTF. I also explained what kind of work I had done till then in‬
‭those clubs. She actually wanted to know whether I had done any kind of certifications. I had‬
‭completed the German course conducted on campus, so I mentioned that. I also said that I was‬
‭planning to do a certification course in Professional Communication.‬
‭She then asked me about what I knew about fidelity investments. Since I had done minimal‬
‭research, I was not able to tackle the question confidently. She then explained what the‬
‭company primarily does. She immediately followed up by asking, “What do you think an‬
‭individual with a CS background would do in a company like this?”. After this and a few other‬
‭questions, the interview got over.‬
‭I asked her about the work culture in the company and feedback on how I performed in the‬
‭interview. This round went on for 10-15 minutes.‬
‭6 people were finally selected for the internship, and I was one among them.‬
‭Key points to note:‬
‭●‬ ‭Always be truthful to your resume.‬
‭●‬ ‭Do a thorough research about the company before attending the interview.‬
‭●‬ ‭Be thorough with the projects you mention in your resume from head to tail, and be‬
‭ready for follow-up questions.‬
‭●‬ ‭Practice coding in any of the available coding platforms (Leetcode, Hackerrank, etc.)‬
‭●‬ ‭Concentrate on time management while attending Online tests.‬
‭●‬ ‭Be thorough with DBMS, OS and DSA. Also try to concentrate on OOPS and Networks.‬
‭All the best !‬
‭Contact:‬
‭Shiyam Ganesh T‬
‭shiyamganesh.t@gmail.com‬
