Verizon Placement Experience: 
Name : V.Shreya 
Rollno : 2021103578 
About the company: 
Verizon - an American multinational telecommunications conglomerate, is a global leader in 
next generation communications technology, including 5G and the Internet of Things. Verizon 
India (Verizon Data Services India) is an extension of the global Verizon teams working on 
varied systems, applications and initiatives to help deliver the digital experiences that are vital 
to customers' lives and businesses' success. As an innovation-hub, Verizon India plays a critical 
role in both the development of new technologies and the day-to-day operation of Verizon’s 
business. Established in June 2001, Verizon India today has a 7000+ strong, diverse talent pool 
that operates out of Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. 
 
The company has been recognized for its innovation, people practices and culture of diversity 
and inclusion, being featured amongst the top 10 in the 2024 Best Companies to Work list by 
Great Place to Work Institute, bagging #3 rank among Inspiring Workplaces across Asia, by 
the Inspiring Workplaces Group, receiving the NASSCOM GCC Award for Innovation 
Excellence, one of the most Impactful GCCs in India by ETNow, winning six categories at the 
recent DivHERsity Awards 2023, and being recognized as one of the Top 100 Best Companies 
for Women in India (Working Mother and AVTAR rankings) to name a few. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interview Experience: 
Round 1: Coding and Aptitude 
The first round started with us writing a 190–224-word essay on the topic “How video games 
help the teachers” this lasted around 25 mins. The next section consisted of 2 coding questions. 
1) Find whether a number is a weird number or not  
2) Given 2 arrays (arr,rep) of size m and n we need to maximize the digits in arr with the 
elements of rep. If arr is empty return NULL else if rep is zero return arr itself. 
Example: arr = [1,3,0,2,4,5] and rep = [6,9,7] we need to return arr= [9,3,7,6,4,5] 
In the coding round we have extra bonus points for time and space optimization 
Then this section was followed by verbal reasoning which consisted of 2 sections which lasted 
1 min and 4 min. The pro tip here is to attend as many questions as possible. 
The final section is the logical test which didn’t consist of the traditional quantitative aptitude 
and numeric reasoning but instead, cut-e game (Refer YouTube). This includes puzzle 
numbering games. 
Round 2: Group discussion 
Only 48 were shortlisted for the above round. We were divided into 4 groups. We weren’t 
given a specific topic to speak about and the topic was our choice. We were evaluated on 5 
criteria. 
1)Fluency 
2)Ability to lead the discussion 
3) The way we were able to effectively convey our points 
4) The validity and the value of points 
5) Body Language and Attitude. 
Out of this only 24 were shortlisted for the next round. 
 
Round 3: Technical Interview 
The interviewer was quite friendly. He just introduced himself and asked me to tell me about 
myself. We had a basic discussion about the project I have done and why I did these projects. A 
small discussion about my hobbies and extracurricular activities. This lasted about 30-40 
minutes 
 
Only 16 of us were shortlisted 
Round 4: HR Interview. 
This round was simple, where the interviewer asked me about my family background and 
whether I had any questions for him. 
 
And 15 of us got the offer.  
 
Major Pro Tip: 
Work hard and smart 
Practise a lot of coding preferably from Leetcode , GFG, Hackerrank, CodeChef, HackerEarth etc 
etc. 
Befor you appear for the interview know a lot about the company (do a research) 
Make sure you speak fluently without any filler words. 
 
ALL THE BEST 
Any Doubts, feel free to reach me out... 
Phone number: 8056070363   
LinkedIn: Shreya V | LinkedIn 
 
 
