 
 
 
 
 
 
TCS DIGITAL 
 
 
Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services, consulting and business solutions organization 
that delivers real results to global businesses, ensuring a level of certainty no other firm can match. 
TCS offers a consulting-led, integrated portfolio of IT and IT-enabled infrastructure, engineering and 
assurance services.  
 
TCS Digital campus drive – conduct two tests. Aptitude and Coding. Based on the scores on 
these two, we will be selected for interview. 
 
Round 1: Aptitude, Verbal, (Technical or Pseudocode solving), Puzzles 
 
Round 2: Two coding Question  
 
We will have Time limit 1hr. 
 
I have solved both questions. Make sure your code has to pass all the test cases given. So, I got 
selected for the Interview. 
 
Round 3: It consists of 3 Panels (Managerial, Technical and HR)  
 
Managerial Round: 
 
In this round, questions were asked on the extracurricular activities and interests which you have 
mentioned in your resume. They will try to know how will be your approach at different situations 
and your decision making skills.  
 
1. What did you do in NSS? 
 
2. Why do you want to join in TCS? 
 
3. Suppose if you are joined in TCS, the project assignments will be provided to you. If you have any 
doubts, whom you will ask?  
a) managers                     b) friends                   c) or solve by your own 
 
4. Why your CGPA is less compared to 10th and 12th? 
 
Technical Round: 
 
5. Programming languages mentioned in the resume.  
 
6. Which one you feel easier : python or C language? Why? 
 
7. How and when did you learn python? 
 
8. What is the usage of pointer? 
 
9. What are the Storage classes in C? Explain it.  
 
10. Overview of your project ( Input, Algorithm used and Output ) 
 
11. Explanation of projects.  
 
                 I have mentioned three projects in my resume. ML based, Embedded based and DBMS 
based. First, they asked me to explain embedded project. Questions will be like…why you used this 
particular sensor? Why can’t you use other sensors? What will be the range of the used sensor?   
After that they asked me to explain ML project (algorithm explanation) and relate it with embedded 
one, if your projects are relatable.  
 
HR: 
 
The HR round was very casual as compared to other rounds. They are just trying to get to know more 
about yourself 
 
12. How do you want to see yourself after 5 years?  
 
13. What are your hobbies? 
 
14. About the relocation(yes/no)? I said Yes 
 
15. Is your parents ok with your relocation?  
 
 
These were the questions asked me in the Interview(about 45  mins). Overall it was a good experience. 
 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
 
◆ Data structures 
◆ Database management systems 
◆ Operating system 
 
 
Take away: 
 
 
Having a good knowledge of basics, coding and confidence will help you to be placed in this 
company. Project explanation is very important in my case. Explain your project clearly. 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Name.   : SIVARANJANI B 
Mail id. : sivaranjani23071999@gmail.com 
