  
VEGROW INTERVIEW EXPERIENCE  
(INTERNSHIP)  
Vegrow, India's leading B2B fruits marketplace was established in 2020 by IIT 
alumni. Vegrow has established a strong presence in the fruits segment in 
India, which is a large, unorganised market that is poised for tech-led 
disruption due to its fragmented and localised operational structure and is 
characterised by the involvement of multiple intermediaries facilitating 
transactions.  
The company maximises farmers’ income, by accurately grading produce and 
efficiently matching it with the most suitable demand channel. This creates a 
virtuous cycle, attracting more farmers through competitive pricing as well as 
more buyers, who seek consistency in both price and quality.  
ROUND 1:  
Online Hackerrank Test :  
It consists of three coding questions and an sql query to be written.  
0/1 Knapsack Problem  - The objective was to maximize the profit from 
selecting artifacts for a caravan with a strict weight limit. Given the profit 
values and weights of the artifacts, I needed to determine the maximum profit 
achievable without exceeding the weight capacity  
Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock - The task was to determine the maximum 
profit that can be achieved by buying a crop on one day and selling it on a later 
day, given an array of prices representing the crop prices over several days.  
Candy Distribution problem -  To calculate the minimum number of rewards 
(or candies) to distribute among fields based on their productivity ratings, 
ensuring that higher-rated fields receive more rewards than their adjacent 
lower-rated fields.  
SQL - SQL query problem where I needed to retrieve the names of students 
who scored higher than 75 marks. The results were ordered by the last three 
characters of their names, and if there were ties, they were further sorted by 
the student ID.  
  
From the test 10 students were shortlisted and eligible for the Interview 
Conducted at CUIC and there are 2 Technical interviews.  
  
ROUND 2:  
TECHNICAL INTERVIEW-1 : (1 hour)  
1. Introduce Yourself  
2. Can you write the pseudocode for the knaspsack problem using 
recursive method.  
3. The syntax of SUBSTR which I used to write my sql query on coding 
round.  
4. They asked about my project.  
5. What are the frameworks you know in both frontend and 
backend.  
6. Gave Laptop and told to write merge two sorted linked lists 
program in Hackerrank.  
7. How do you find whether a number is  an exponent of 2 using bits.  
8. There are 12 balls. 11 balls are of same weight and there is one 
odd ball which may be either lighter or heavier when compared to 
other 11 balls. You have a weighing scale and you can use it 3 
times. How do you find the ball and also specify whether it is 
lighter or heavier than others.  
9. What is Ternary Search and write its pseudocode.  
10. Any idea to study Higher Studies.  
11. They asked some questions on my Resume. 
From this round 5 students got shortlisted for the next round.  
TECHNICAL INTERVIEW-2: (20mins)  
1. Tell me about yourself.  
2. There was a Scientist and he has 4 bottles, of which 3 are chemicals 
and 1 with poison . He has 1 rat alone which dies when it consume 
poison. The result of the poison make the rat die after 10 hours.  
 
 
What is the minimum time required for the scientist to find the 
poison bottle.   
 For the same question if it takes 10 +/-  2hours to affect the   rat 
what is the minimum time required for the scientist to find the poison 
bottle.  
3. Write the pseudocode to print the boundary of the tree.  
4. How do you find the loop in linked list.   
5. Why fast pointer is moved two nodes from the current why can’t it 
can move three nodes while finding the loop in linked list.  
6. Did you host any website? Show it.  
And finally 3 students got selected for the internship.  
ALL THE BEST!  
 
Details: 
Name : SIVANIPRIYA P S 
Email: sivanipriyasenthilkumar@gmail.com 
