Arista Networks Interview Experience
Company Overview:
Arista Networks is a computer networking company specializing in software-driven
cloud networking for large-scale data centers, cloud computing, and campus en-
vironments. The company is known for its high-performance, scalable networks
that incorporate Ethernet speeds up to 800G, enabled by its Arista EOS (Extensi-
ble Operating System). Founded in 2008 by networking pioneers, Arista provides
solutions for artificial intelligence (AI), high-performance computing, and high-
frequency trading, focusing on availability, agility, automation, analytics, and
security.
Rounds:
1. Coding Round
2. Technical Round 1
3. Technical Round 2
4. Technical + HR Round
Coding Round
For the coding round only 80 students were shortlisted by the company. We did
our test in the computer system in our lab, not using our own laptop. It consists
of 3 coding questions along with 15 MCQs related to C, C++, and some DSA.
All three questions were given a time slot of 20, 25, and 30 min, respectively, and
for 15 MCQs in total, 15 min is given.
Qn1:
An array of size n will be given where adjacent elements are connected to each
other. Along with that, two points were given that imply an additional edge
connection between those points.
Now I need to return an array of length n
where the first index has the number of connections with a single hop, the second
with a double hop, and so on.
Qn2:
Two arrays, say arr1 and arr2, were given. We can assume that arr1[i] is the
parent of arr2[i] or vice versa. Create an undirected graph so that we can fulfill
1
our assumption. Now a 2D array was given called queries. Each query indicates
the ordered traversal of the graph. The traversal starts from 1, then visits all
children nodes, then their children, and so on. The output is a string where 1
says the query is correct; else, 0.
Qn3:
It’s a LeetCode problem that I mentioned below; the only difference is that they
asked for the largest value instead of the smaller one.
LeetCode 2462 - Total Cost to Hire K Workers
Focus on your problem-solving approach to provide an optimal solution.
Out of 80, 3 of us got selected for the next round.
Technical Round 1
It was an offline interview, and I was asked to code on the CoderPad platform
(pair programming interview).
Q1: LeetCode 71 - Simplify Path
Q2: Find the sum of the largest path in a binary tree; if we have more than one
largest path, return the maximum sum among those.
Then he started to ask about basic questions related to C, like about pointers,
the difference between char arr[] and char *arr[], and more, and also related to
Linux and OS, like ”What will happen if I type the ’ls’ command?” He expected
me to explain the internal working of the shell.
This round mainly focused on problem-solving skills as well as basic under-
standing of C, Linux, and OS.
Technical Round 2
This round was held online, and I started by introducing myself, and then he
straight away asked me to explain about the project that I consider the best.
He asked some cross questions about my project related to networks, and then,
similar to the first round, we discussed C programming in more detail. This time
we focused more on dynamic and static allocation and 1D and 2D arrays. Finally
he asked me if I got some questions.
This round mainly focused on in-depth understanding of my project.
2
Technical + HR Round
This round was also held online, and I was asked both technical and personal
questions. Technical questions were like some simple DSA coding questions and
also a scenario-based question on designing that involves giving an optimized
design to log data from some IoT devices. Finally he asked me if I got some
questions to answer.
Make sure your question is impressive.
Result
I am the only one selected for the position of Software Engineer FTE.
Key Takeaways
1. Try to provide optimal solutions.
2. You may start with a different approach but try to meet their expectation.
3. Focus more on DSA, OS, CN, Linux(shell), C, and C++.
4. Answer questions confidently.
5. Have a clear understanding of all concepts mentioned in your resume.
6. Maintain a CGPA of 8.5 or above.
7. Refer GFG to know more about this company.
Name: Sri Rama Pandian H U
Email: sriramapandian147@gmail.com
Phone: 7200321853
3
