 
 
 
 
 
ACCENTURE 
 
 
 
Accenture is a global professional services company with leading capabilities 
in digital, cloud and security. Combining unmatched experience and specialized skills 
across more than 40 industries, Accenture offer Strategy and Consulting, Interactive, 
Technology and Operations services all powered by the world’s largest network of 
Advanced Technology and Intelligent Operations centers. Accenture embrace the 
power of change to create value and shared success for the clients, people, 
shareholders, partners and communities. 
 
Accenture plc is an American-Irish multinational professional services 
company. A Fortune Global 500 company, it reported revenues of $44.33 billion in 
2020 and had 506,000 employees. In 2015, the company had about 150,000 
employees in India, 48,000 in the US, and 50,000 in the Philippines. For more details 
visit  at www.accenture.com. 
 
Total rounds: 4  
 
Round 1 
This round consists of Aptitude, verbal, Technical questions.Once you cleared this 
round, you got an mail for coding round on the same day. 
 
Round 2 
Coding Question (one is easy, the another one is medium) This will have a time limit 
of 1 hr. Once you cleared the coding round, you will be get a link for next round after 
3 days . 
 
ROUND 3 
Communication Assessment  
This round contains 4 levels , 
 
      ->listening skills 
      ->Reading skills 
      ->story telling skills 
      ->writing skills 
 
This round is not an elimination round.  
 
ROUND 4 
Technical and Hr round. This round is mix of both technical and hr question 
 
In this round, the panel consists of 2 members. 
 
1) Tell me about yourself 
 
2) What are your achievements 
 
3) Where will you  be after 5 years 
 
4) What is your hard and good time 
 
5) Strength and weakness 
 
6) What is your level in coding skills? Out of 10? Why ? 
 
7) Can u did any certification course? 
 
8) Any extra curricular activities? 
 
9) Which language will be preferable? Why? 
 
10) Some question in DBMS queries like find top 3 salary etc 
 
11) Purpose of having command in DBMS? 
 
12) Why you choose accenture? 
 
Prepare well from your resume. 
 
 
Topics to be focussed 
 
• 
Data structure  
• 
DBMS 
• 
Python 
 
Take away: 
 
 
Having a good knowledge of basics, coding, communication and confidence 
will help to be placed in this company 
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best. 
 
Name            Srinithi B  
Mail id         srinithi.b1999@gmail.com 
