ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND 
Royal Bank of Scotland is a major retail and commercial bank in Scotland. It is one of the 
retail banking subsidiaries of NatWest Group, together with NatWest and Ulster Bank. The 
Royal Bank of Scotland provides a full range of banking and insurance services to personal, 
business, and commercial customers. 
 As well as traditional branches, phone, and internet banking, Royal Bank of Scotland has 
operated "mobile branches" since 1946 using converted vans to serve rural areas. There are 
currently 19 mobile branches. On 14 February 2020, it was announced that the holding company 
of Royal Bank of Scotland (Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc) would be renamed NatWest 
Group plc later that year, taking the brand under which the majority of its business is delivered. 
There were 2 rounds for the entire selection process for the company. 
Round 1 (Online Test): 
 
This round was an online test with an overall duration of 2 hr maximum. 65 students 
were allowed to attend this test after screening process based on CGPA and resume .The entire 
set of questions in the test was of medium difficulty range. This round had 2 coding questions, 1 
algorithm, 20 Tech MCQs, 10 Quants, 10 verbal questions, 10 logical reasoning questions and 
Aptitude questions (Section 4). You could jump on to any questions there were no restrictions.      
Solving Aptitude questions in Indiabix will be more than enough to solve aptitude questions in 
any interviews you go. 
Tech MCQs included questions from DBMS, OS, Data structures, C/C++ output based 
questions.  
After this round, 6 students were shortlisted. 
Round 2 (Technical + HR round): 
 
This was the final round –Technical + HR round with 2 interviewers. The following 
questions were asked: 
1. Tell me about yourself. 
2. Projects in the resume (They asked me to explain one project in the resume which I loved 
the most. The way you explain matters the most.) 
3. Coding language which I am most familiar with (My answer was C++) and proceeded 
with some basic tech questions in C++. 
4.  Basic OOPS concept. 
5. Why DBMS? 
6. Difference between DELETE, TRUNCATE and DROP Table. 
7. How to host a website? 
8. Why not Masters? 
9. Basic problem solving questions. 
10. Situation based questions ( Eg: Company asks you to work in a new area of knowledge 
which you are not familiar with. Will you work in the new area or ask the superior about 
a change?) 
11. Any questions to them. 
The interviewers were so friendly and kind. For technical questions and coding, 
GeeksForGeeks, tutorialspoint, etc can be followed. 
Speak with confidence. Go through your resume thoroughly.      
Finally, 3 of us were selected for accepting the offer  
Topics to be focused: 
 
Data structures 
 
Database Management systems 
 
Operating Systems 
 
Networks 
 
All the best : 
 
 
Sujithra.R 
sujithra200019@gmail.com 
 
