Tekion 
 
 
Tekion is a cloud-built platform focussed on transforming consumer experience in the 
automotive industry. The company uses advanced machine learning and AI capabilities for a 
personalised and seamless consumer experience. 
 
Selection Process consisted of: 
 
Round 1 - Online Test 
• MCQ section- Around 15 or 20 questions related to data structures, DBMS, loop outputs and 
other topics 
• Coding section consisted of one easy question, two medium and one hard. 
Below were my questions: 
➢ Easy- Given an array of nine stocks, return the largest number of stocks lesser than or 
equal to a number ‘n’. 
➢ Medium 1- Given an integer ‘n’ and two arrays, check how many elements of second 
array is present in first array. If number of common elements less than ‘n’, return -1, 
else return the maximum number of common elements. 
➢ Medium 2- Given two strings, how many characters needed to make a palindrome 
with the second string (substrings from the first string can be used to make 
palindrome)? 
➢ Hard- Given a number ‘n’ and two strings, if a value equal to or less than ‘n’ is added 
to each letter of the first string, is it possible to obtain the second string? 
I solved 7/10 test cases for the easy question and 2/10 test cases for the hard question. 
 
Round 2 - Technical Interview I 
• What is Polymorphism? 
• Difference between runtime polymorphism and compile time polymorphism. 
• Implement two stacks using a single array. 
• Implement three stacks using a single array. (I didn’t know the answer) 
• To code: 1. Implement stack 2. Given an integer n, find pairs of numbers in a sorted array 
equal to ‘n’ 
Language used:  C++. 
 
Round 3 - Technical Interview II 
• What is Paging? 
• What is Indexing? 
• What is Hashing? 
• What is an exception? What are the types of exceptions? 
• What is a Singleton Class? 
• To code: 1. Given linked list, point to nth last element. 2. Map data structure related question 
3. Singleton class 4. Exception example 
I coded the first two questions in C++. Interviewer asked if I was comfortable with Java. As 
I agreed, the interviewer asked me to code the next two questions using Java. 
 
Round 4: Managerial Interview 
This was an informal round and only consisted of questions related to my resume. 
The interviewer asked me about the projects mentioned in my resume, the programming languages I 
knew and about the certificates I obtained through online courses. 
  
 
Round 5: HR Interview 
This was also an informal round. Following questions were asked: 
• What are your strengths and weaknesses? 
• What was your favourite subject in school? 
• If not in this field, which profession would you enjoy to work in? 
• What are your hobbies? 
 
Note: All above interviews began with the question ‘Introduce yourself’. (Helpful tip: Prepare your 
introduction in advance. Try to mention points not already present in your resume like technical fields 
you are interested in and in case you have done an internship, what you learnt during that internship. 
Being well-prepared with your introduction will give you a huge confidence boost and will set a great 
tone for the rest of your interview.) 
 
Final Result: Selected :D 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
Data structures 
Object Oriented Programming 
Database Management Systems 
 
Java Basics 
 
What helped me through the placement process: 
• Keeping a positive attitude- Even if you don’t get shortlisted or don’t make it through the 
interviews, always remember these placement tests provide you invaluable experience in the 
form of type of questions asked in job interviews and knowledge of what companies are 
looking for. Know that the effort you are making is worth it and let this keep you motivated 
throughout the placement process.   
• Learning from mistakes- If there is a question you couldn’t answer in a test or interview, going 
back to it later and understanding where you went wrong ensures you don’t make the same 
mistake twice.  
 
Hope this helps  
 
 
All the Best! 
 
Tanya Elizabeth Abraham 
tanya.abraham@yahoo.co.in 
