Nokia-Interview 
 
Date : 21-08-2025(Thursday) 
Place : CUIC, CEG 
 
PPT – Congnizant Auditorium, CUIC 
Online Test – Rusa Lab CUIC – 20-08-2025(Wednesday) 
Round 1 – Technical Round 
Virtual Interview Connected to a Interviewer via Teams.  
How are you? 
Tell me about yourself. 
Asked me to send resume in chat box in team. (Always keep resume in lap and mobile) 
Which language ? I know C,C++,Java. I am currently using C++ for DSA. So I am strong with C and C++. 
(Always include Java . But tell him in which language you are most comfortable with) 
What is OOPs( Short and Crisp answer is required) 
Asked me to present screen but permission is not given I asked him to give permission. He asked me 
to give request but in teams we can’t request permission. So I informed. Then I said shall I type and 
send in Chat. He said ok. 
DSA Question :  Reverse of Linked List (While typing explained him the logic – This is very very 
important) 
NOTE:- If the interviewer gave any DSA question and ask to code. First say the logic and then while 
writing on paper or typing open your mouth and say what each line does.  
Eg. ListNode *prev=nullptr, *curr=head, *next=nullptr.    => I am initializing pointer. Prev for storing 
previous node’s address, curr for current node’s address and next for next node’s address. 
What is polymorphism ? 
What is virtual function in c++? 
What is signal handlers? 
 
Round – 2 Technical Face to Face  
Do you know about Binary Tree? Ans: Yes 
Asked me to implement Binary Search Tree as Class 
(He asked me to define struct Node and then class BST (function need to declared only and definition 
should be outside the class ) He helped me with syntax for writing function outside the class. ) 
I explained first insert function . Then started to write. As I write I explained him the logic. I made 
small small mistakes he corrected me. Then I explained delete fuction logic saying three cases. I 
wrote little .He asked what will you for deleting node with two parent. I  explained like swap left 
subtree bottom right node’s value with current node’s value or right subtree bottom left node’s 
value with current node’s value and then delete that node.    
He gave clue for getting the terms he expected, he asked what are traversal available . I said inorder 
preorder postorder. Then I added in BST inorder traversal give sorted sort. So when deleted a node 
with two parent swap Inorder predecessor or Inorder successor with curr node.  
I wrote 5 to 7 lines he stopper as time was going. Saying I know you can write with little help. 
What is size of pointers ? In 32-bit => 4 bytes    In 64-bit=>8bytes(learn reason also) 
What is static typecasting and dynamic typecasting ( I know typecasting but not this) and some 
question like auto keyword(answered half) 
Interviewer: You know the concepts . You have to brush Up it. 
 
Note:  
In Pen paper round , write code explaining the logic also simultaneously. Then will be checking how 
clear are you in logic and communication. Do not take the pad yourside sit write and show him. 
 
HR Round:- 
Tell me about yourself. 
Background 
How did you came to this college. Whether have you written any entrance exam? => I explained 
about cutoff calculation in 12th mark. 
About Hackathon experience. 
What is the reason behind other team winning hackathon. 
Will to relocate to Bengaluru?  
Do you have question for me ? Yes (Always ask some question) 
I asked how did you get this job 
Thank (I gave her handsake ) 
 
 
