 
 
 
 
 
Hubstream 
 
 
It is a USA based Software Company started in 2013. It provides software platform for 
investigating crime. Adopted globally by law enforcement and corporations. Integrated workflows 
to improve productivity. Hubstream India incorporated in Oct 2018 and operational from first july 
2019 in Chennai. For more details, visit www.hubstreamsoftware.com 
 
Number of rounds: 
 
Online test 
 
Group Discussion 
 
Technical interview 
 
HR 
 
Technical interview 
 
Online test: 
 
The online test conducted in Google forms with proctoring consists of Logical Reasoning, 
Analytical, Coding section and a general passage writing.  
 
For logical reasoning, many puzzles were asked. For this refer Geeks for Geeks Puzzle 
section, Interview puzzles and riddles by Logically yours in youtube for better understanding. 
 
Time : 1 hour 
 
Group Discussion: 
 
Title: Pros and cons of artificial intelligence and machine learning 
 
Time: about 20 minutes. 
 
Technical Interview: 
 
In this round, the following questions were asked. 
 
Introduce yourself 
Hobbies 
Given a string, find whether it is anagram or not. (explained the code with workflow) 
Given two strings and have to find ons string is palidrome to another string or not(in efficient way. 
This is solved by using dynamic programming) 
Given an array, find the first positive missing number (two cases: The array contains only positive 
numbers. 
The array contains both positive and negative numbers) 
 
Time: about 1 hour. 
 
HR: 
 
Introduce yourself 
 
How do you spend time in lockdown 
 
Questions from my resume (I have mentioned, I organised Deadlock opener event in our 
symposium. So questions like what is deadlock opener event and its rounds and real time example 
for deadlock were asked) 
 
Explain about any machine learning project that you have done so far. 
 
Any questions for you? 
 
Time: about 15minutes 
 
Technical Interview: 
 
This round is conducted with the CTO of Hubstream. 
 
 
Introduce yourself and about family 
 
 
Queue implementation using array with workflow and constraints( I have mentioned 
area of interest as data structures in my resume, so queue implemetation is asked) 
 
 
Any questions 
 
Time: about 1 hour 
 
Topics to be focussed: 
 
Basic coding and its workflow 
 
Data structures 
 
Projects mentioned in resume 
 
Having a good knowlege of basics, coding and confidence will help to be placed in this company. 
 
Hope this helps. 
 
Thank you and All the Best!!. Feel free to ask any doubts! 
 
Varsha.A 
varshaanandavel@gmail.com 
