BARCLAYS 
This is an intern interview experience. 
About the company: 
Barclays is a leading British multinational bank with more than 325 years of history 
in financial services. Headquartered in London, it operates in over 40 countries and 
serves millions of customers worldwide. The company provides a wide range of 
services, including retail and commercial banking, investment banking, and wealth 
management. Known for its focus on innovation, technology, and sustainability, 
Barclays continues to play a key role in shaping the future of global banking and 
financial solutions. 
Selection process: 
There were 3 stages. 
Stage-1: Online assessment. 
Stage-2: Technical interview. 
Stage-3: HR interview. 
Online assessment: 
The first step in the selection process was an online assessment conducted on the 
HackerEarth platform in a virtual mode. Basically, OA had questions from OOPS, 
OS, debugging codes from various languages , predicting outputs for coding 
problems and 5 SQL queries. 
The assessment consisted of 25 questions to be completed in 70 minutes, 
including 20 multiple-choice questions and 5 SQL queries. To clear this OA, one 
needs a strong understanding of fundamental CS concepts. The SQL queries were 
super easy. But, it was given as a long passage and we need to figure out what they 
ask for. 
Though the questions were easy, TIME MANAGEMENT played a crucial role. So, 
manage your time accordingly.  
46 were shortlisted. 
Interview round: 
Interviews were conducted at CUIC. Before the interview session, we had Pre-
placement talk at 9.00 AM , where they actually made the interviewees comfortable 
and the recruiters were super-friendly. The interview session began at 10:30 AM. 
The interviewees were grouped into different teams and each assigned with a panel. 
Technical round: 
I had both the tech and HR rounds simultaneously, handled by a two-member panel, 
unlike others who had breaks. As expected, the first question was self-introduction. I 
briefly introduced myself and explained about my projects. 
After this, The following questions were asked. 
1. The tech I used in my DBMS project(Restaurant management system). E,g: 
Why PHP? Why no modern tech stacks? 
2. Asked about the project that I mentioned as currently-working. She verified 
whether I was really working on the project and asked about the different 
stages involved in doing a project. 
3. I was asked to write a SQL query : find the 2nd highest salary. Initially, I came 
up with the answer using subquery. Then, she asked me to optimise it and I 
managed to use OFFSET and LIMIT.  
• Which language I am familiar with? I said java. Series of questions were asked 
related to java -  
                   Collections 
                   Difference between Hashmap and Set 
                   Given a scenario, which data structure you would choose? 
 Why you use java? 
 Classes and objects in java.  
 
4. Explain about RESTful Api’s  
5. Explain different HTTP methods. 
 
6. Difference between PUT and PATCH. 
7. Explain your project workflow. 
8. Write a java code for the following scenario:  
a. Given a raw data file with various kind of information like name, age, 
phone number etc. Sort the file in ascending order of age and remove 
the rows where age is greater than 50. 
b. For this, I wrote the code using collections and using loops.  
 
    10.Explain about sorting algorithms. Specifically, she asked me to write the 
algorithm for bubble sort. 
11.Explain how REST Apis were used in your project. 
12.How will you handle a situation when 2 processes are simultaneously 
accessing the same resource? 
13. Some questions from DBMS and OOPS. 
That’s concluded technical part. 
 
HR round: 
A situation was described and they expected an answer that would be practically 
feasible. 
1. How will you work with senior team members? 
2. How will you react when your work is not recognized? 
3. She made reference of a Tamil movie Yaaradi nee mohini and asked whether 
a bug in real time project could be fixed in overnight. 
4. Will I accept the offer from Microsoft if given? 
5. What do you do other than coding? 
For every question, I aligned my answers with the values of Barclays, the RISES. 
It’s very important to know about the values and principles of the company you 
apply for. 
1. What RISES mean? 
2. Explain Stewardship in RISES with your real life example. 
3. Why Barclays? 
4. How do you see yourself in the next 5 years? (I answered that I aspire to 
continue working at Barclays and, like the interviewers, return to Anna 
University to recruit students from my own college).They found it unique 
and were impressed with my answer. 
Finally, they asked about my family, and my home. 
Out of 46, 15 were finally selected. I am happy to say that I am one among them. 
 KEY TAKEAWAYS: 
• Before attending internships, I covered 60% of DSA problems on A-Z Striver 
sheet. Consistent problem solving would definitely help in your process. 
• Be confident when you speak in interviews. 
• Always be truthful in interviews. If you’re not sure about a question, it’s better 
to say you’re not aware of it rather than guessing. 
• Be straight to the point. Don’t beat around the bush. 
• Know everything you mention in your resume. 
 
 
 
 
 
TIPS THAT WOULD HELP YOU: 
• Never underestimate yourself – you are capable of much more than you think. 
• If your friends get placed before you, don’t feel jealous. Everyone’s journey is 
different, and your time will surely come. 
• Give your best effort every time, and don’t stress over the results – success 
will follow when you stay consistent. 
 
 
Hope this helps you! 
Feel free to contact for any doubts. 
 
 
CONTACT: 
Email: mevarsha2005@gmail.com 
Phone: 8056246330 
THANK YOU!!! 
 
 
 
 
