Fidelity Investments 
Interview Experience 
 
About the Company 
Fidelity Investments is a US-based organization, and one of the largest asset managers 
in the world. It operates a brokerage firm, manages mutual funds, provides fund 
distribution and investment advice, retirement services, index funds, wealth 
management, securities execution and clearance, asset custody, and life insurance. It 
offers brokerage clearing and back office support and software products for financial 
services firms. It is one of the largest providers of 401(k) plans and manages employee 
benefit programs for more than 28,800 businesses. 
 
Role 
2M Summer Internship 
5M Internship & PPO based on performance 
 
Process 
1. Pre-Placement Talk 
2. Online Assessment 
3. Technical Interview 
4. HR Interview 
 
Pre-Placement Talk 
A well-detailed introduction and discussion on the company. Took place online and 
lasted for about an hour. 
 
Online Assessment 
The assessment was for a period of 90 minutes, and consisted of 3 different sections: 
 
1. Coding – 40 minutes: 2 questions were asked. Requires basic DSA knowledge to 
easily get through. Check if a brute force approach passes all the test cases, and go 
for optimized solutions only if it doesn’t. 
2. Aptitude – 20 minutes: The usual aptitude questions. MCQ and numerical type. 
3. Algorithms – 30 minutes: 2 questions about relatively simple algorithms were 
asked. Be thorough with the different algorithms you’ve learned in your Data 
Structures and Design and Analysis of Algorithms classes. 
 
Around 350 candidates took this assessment, and about 50 were shortlisted for the 
interviews. 
 
Technical Interview 
The technical interview took place at CUIC, and lasted for about 60 minutes for me. 
However, on average, it was probably around 30 minutes. 
 
Tips 
1. Be thorough with your projects. Most questions will be from your projects. 
2. Any theoretical question asked will most probably be from a concept or tool that 
you have or could have used in the projects mentioned in your resume, so when 
answering the question, explain how you used the concept or tool in your project 
and how it made your design better. 
3. Have good understanding of the different concepts from core IT areas, mainly 
DBMS, Software Engineering, OS, Web Design, OOPs, Networks, and Algorithms. 
4. There is more importance given to system design and the understanding of core 
OOPs and DBMS concepts. There will be DSA questions, but they will be relatively 
simple, and mostly straightforward such that you can answer them on the spot. 
5. Python, C++, or Java are good choices if any specific coding questions are asked. 
 
Questions Asked to Me 
1. Explain IPC. 
2. What is the Critical Section problem? How do you solve it? 
3. What is Indexing? Explain its types. Why did you use it in your project (I used it for a 
simple project wherein the data was massive - around 500K records).  
4. Construct an ER diagram for the given scenario (it was a pretty simple scenario and I 
only needed 5 different entities to cover the requirements. A good balance of 
normalisation and redundancies is expected). 
5. Implement a stack using an array (my interviewer was familiar with C++, but any 
language of choice was offered, so I went with Python and used lists). 
6. Design the given circuit using HDL (the circuit was drawn in a paper, consisting of 
AND, OR, NAND, and XOR gates; I think very few were asked HDL questions, so don't 
worry much). 
7. Explain the mathematics behind linear regression. 
8. Provide a walkthrough of the OSI model and explain both top-down and bottom-up 
approaches. 
9. Explain the difference between TCP and UDP. 
10. How did you use Inheritance in your project (it was a simple OOPs-focused 
Supermarket System)? 
11. Some HTML tag questions, Agile vs Waterfall, and other pretty straightforward 
questions were asked.  
 
As you can see, the questions were pretty straightforward, but you have to convince the 
interviewer that you know what you're talking about. So just be strong with your basics. 
Thorough foundational knowledge is pretty much enough. 
HR Interview 
Around 30 candidates were shortlisted from the 50 who took the technical interview. My 
HR round lasted for about 20 minutes, which was the overall average as well. 
 
Tips 
1. Research the company.  
2. Research yourself. Don't be confident that you can answer anything about yourself. 
Sometimes, on the spot, you'll say something about yourself that is not true, and 
when a follow-up is asked, you'll put yourself in a tight spot. So, understand your 
strengths and weaknesses and focus primarily on your strengths whenever you're 
introducing yourself.  
3. Don't be too technical here. You can highlight that as your strength, sure, but this 
round is to assess your suitability in a workplace environment, so look for other 
strengths like communication, collaboration, etc. 
4. Fit the vibes of the interviewer - if he/she is friendly, feel free to have a friendly but 
respectful talk. If he/she is straight down to business, be crisp yet comprehensive 
with your answers. 
5. Some HR interviews may consist of technical questions, so be ready for that as well 
and don't be too shocked. 
 
Questions Asked to Me 
1. Introduce yourself. 
2. Suggest me a phone that I could buy, given I have an infinite budget (I said that I was 
a phone fanatic in my introduction, hence the follow-up). 
3. Why would you recommend this phone? 
4. What do you think about AI? How much do you use it? 
5. Have you read this book about AI? (I said that I loved reading) 
6. What kind of books do you read? 
7. Summarise your favourite book to me in one minute and convince me to read it. 
8. What is one quality of yours that you think would be amazing for the workplace in 
Fidelity? 
 
My interviewer was a pretty chill guy, and allowed me to ask him a couple of questions 
as well at the end, and he really liked the questions that I asked him, because they were 
aimed at his personal experiences and how I could be ready for the company. 
 
And that’s it! 12 candidates were selected after the HR round, and I was one of them. If 
you have any specific questions, feel free to reach out to me! 
 
Yuvaraj K 
MIT IT 2022-2026 Batch 
LinkedIn 
